{"Comments": "I never, ever would have read <---A>Sarah Dessen</---A> if it weren't for my GoodReads friends. I'm not much on chick lit and I only occasionally come across realistic YA fiction that I truly enjoy, so I was extremely wary of what lay behind those pretty book covers, even though most of the reviews were positively gushing. I fell for this book really hard,<---M> really fast</---M>, however. I expected a light, hopefully somewhat amusing read but what I got instead was a quiet, deep story that I absolutely loved reading fr I never, ever would have read Sarah Dessen if it weren't for my GoodReads friends. I'm not much on chick lit and I only occasionally come across realistic YA fiction that I truly enjoy, so I was extremely wary of what lay behind those pretty book covers, even though most of the reviews were positively gushing. I fell for this book really hard, really fast, however. I expected a light, hopefully somewhat amusing read but what I got instead was a quiet, deep story that I absolutely loved reading from beginning to end. I felt so much empathy for Macy, who struggles to be the perfect daughter but feels small and unimportant in so many aspects of her life. The author also wrote incredibly touching examples of how people process grief in different ways, especially in how Macy witnessed her father's death as well as the funny and bittersweet packages that continue to arrive for him. I also found Macy's relationships with her mom and her sister to be painfully familiar as well as believably awkward and flawed. This isn't a doom and gloom Message Book, however; it's surprisingly sweet and warm and grounded in a way that so many of these types of books are not. I loved the way Macy's friendships with Kristy and Monica and Delia and Bert, as well as her more-than-friends relationship with Wes, are portrayed. (<---B>view spoiler</---B>) [Lamest ex-boyfriend ever, though. But the uppity mean girls at the library were totally believable. (hide spoiler) ] Their interactions when they're working or hanging out are somehow relaxed and fun and full of self-discovery all at the same time. I truly believe that it's important to have people in our lives who bring out different sides of us, and sometimes the very truest friends turn out to be the ones who see things in us that we didn't even know are there. I'm so glad that this book spends just as much time on Macy herself, her family, and her friends as it does as on figuring out which boy she really wants. I will say that although I enjoyed the small triumphs leading up to the end when Macy finally takes the big step towards changing her life, I do wish that there was a little more time spent with the characters afterwards. After roughly 370 pages of buildup and a really adorable friendship between Macy and Wes, I felt a little disoriented and cheated when the story ended just a few pages after the really big and sweet scene I'd been waiting for. But overall, this book was very well-written and was truly a pleasure to read. It gave me more than I expected, it put a big smile on my face, and it made me feel wonderfully warm and happy...especially because I now have so many more Dessen books to look forward to. Big thanks to my GoodReads buddies for giving *me* the push I needed to find such a great author! ...more First thoughts: I might need to change my rating system for this book to be given only 5 stars.. Also i need some time to sort out my feelings (between both overwhelming joy and sadness) and come up with a proper review, because i have lots of \"wow\"s in my mind right now, but i fear that it might not be enough to express how beautiful this book really is. This story really touched a soft spot in my heart.<---F> \"It's all in the view</---F>. That's what I mean about forever, too. For any one of us our forever c First thoughts: I might need to change my rating system for this book to be given only 5 stars.. Also i need some time to sort out my feelings (between both overwhelming joy and sadness) and come up with a proper review, because i have lots of \"wow\"s in my mind right now, but i fear that it might not be enough to express how beautiful this book really is. This story really touched a soft spot in my heart. \"It's all in the view. That's what I mean about forever, too. For any one of us our forever could end in an hour, or a hundred years from now. You never know for sure, so you'd better make every second count.\" Full Review: This book was so beautiful that I felt the urge to cry so many times, but not just for sadness, but because of all those strong emotions that this story has brought out of my heart. Truth being said, I think I've felt in love that night, while reading it.. not only with Wes but with all the crew members from Wish. I have a big heart in my tiny body, so maybe even Caroline can squeeze in there, also I have a lot of affection for Macy's father, and - if she wasn't so damn stubborn - Macy's mother could've won a little spot too.. just a tiny one. I haven't enjoyed the side characters this much since maybe On the Jellicoe Road , I haven't cheered as much for the main characters since Anna and the French Kiss , I haven't cared this much for someone's (as a character) death since Winter Longing or The Hunger Games as a matter of fact.. Oh God, I simply love it! This is a story about loss, and I understand it; This is a story about first love, and remember it; This is a story about beginnings, and I am already there; This is a story about real life, and I am living it... This is one of those beautiful books that I will grab some other time and read it again, and I really hope that I will be able to feel the same emotions, that I am going to love it even more.. I liked the way every character in the story handled the loss in their life (and how different their choices were): - Macy's mother and Wes found refugee in their work (the same path but in such a different way) - Macy kept all the pain inside, waiting for it to just disappear in time, but in fact it only got stronger until it became unbearable. I understood her friendship with Wes, how good it felt for her to talk to someone that could understand her and her fears, someone who could take the pain away with only an embrace, or a word, or an understanding smile. - Delia was a mixture between them all. She knew how strong her pain was, and she learned how to live with it (I liked the comparison with the hole in the road, I could understand her better) - Macy's sister was probably more like me. She was the one crying her heart out at the beginning, and after that she was the one trying to put the pieces of her life (and even theirs) back together. Now about the love story, oh, it was precious. Macy and Wes are adorable, too adorable for words. It was such a slow development, in the best possible way, it made me feel like a teenager again, falling in love for the first time.. I loved their truth game and the way they kept finding out things about each other, it was nice to see how perfectly they fit together, how close they became day by day. There are few couples in the YA literature that made me feel so much joy and sadness for them. It's just crazy how beautiful this book really is. And now I'm at a loss for words, so go read the book and then tell the world how much you love it, because I bet you will, with all your heart. \"...the truth about forever is that it is happening right now...\" This review can also be found at ReadingAfterMidnight.com ____________________________________________ Blog (EN) | Facebook | Twitter | Tumblr | Bloglovin' | Blog (RO) ____________________________________________ ...more I thank this book for giving me an important insight on what could be going on in the mind of a 16-year old girl in today's world. You see, I am a father of a girl of that same age. The age of the Macy , the narrator-main protagonist of this book. My daughter is my only child. For the past 16 years, I have been trying to be a good father. But what is a good father? Since there is no school in good parenting, most of my styles come from what I thought were the good points my father showed me or wha I thank this book for giving me an important insight on what could be going on in the mind of a 16-year old girl in today's world. You see, I am a father of a girl of that same age. The age of the Macy , the narrator-main protagonist of this book. My daughter is my only child. For the past 16 years, I have been trying to be a good father. But what is a good father? Since there is no school in good parenting, most of my styles come from what I thought were the good points my father showed me or what I thought he should have done or showed to me but he did not. This could be wrong. Reasons: (1) Those experiences were for a father-son relationship; (2) I grew up with 3 other siblings; (3) I was 16, 31 years ago - almost 1 generation in between. So, times, indeed changed already. Macy loves his father. They run together every morning. The father dies of heart attack one morning when Macy is too lazy getting up from bed. So, Macy thinks that her father would still be alive if she was not lazy that morning. She blames herself but she doesn't tell this to anyone. As an outlet for this guilt, she tries to excel in everything she does: in school, in the library where she works or in her occasional job at Wish Catering. She thinks that by being excellent, she will be able to please her dead father and that somehow will ease up her guilt. Since the birth of my daughter, I've been trying to be a hands-on dad. When I was growing up, my father was almost always at home because he was a plantation owner so he did not have to work at all. So, in a way, he was there when I needed him but just like many \"traditional\" fathers: he was distant especially when he was busy playing chess, drinking with his friends or reading newspaper. He stayed seven years in college but was not a diligent (my impression) student and I could not remember an instance when he helped me with my homework except to correct my grammar or pronunciation when I read aloud my speeches prepared as required by my teachers. I knew that my father was proud of us when we got good grades, medals or distinctions for excellent performance in school but he did not show any emotion in front of us. I thought that I would have been happier as a child if he jumped up and down when I bought home medals from school or when it was announced that I was in the top 4 of my graduating clss in high school. So, when I became a father, I was like that. Always jumping up and down and really appreciative of whatever good news my daughter told me. Each day. Each school report card. Each school year. I always tried attending her school events. I was always eager listening to whatever news she brought home from school. Pre-school. Elementary. High school. Little did I know that she was feeling the pressure. She thought that I was expecting too much from her. She thought that I would like her to achieve what I achieved. I knew this not even from my wife but from my wife's older sister who was closed to my daughter. So, where did I go wrong? Where is that balance between too little and too much? That was the dilemma of Macy in this book, <+++>The Truth About Forever</+++>. Where is that point to strike and the seesaw will stand still? She thinks that Jason does not love her despite her trying to do her best in her work in the library. She feels the pressure that she has brought to herself. She assumes so many things that the unnecessary emotions have bottled up and so the seesaw is not balanced and her feelings are all mixed up and her life is in turmoil. I'm too old to appreciate her romance with the tattooed Wes and I did not really care about his dark past. Maybe my daughter would love this book. But for me, I still liked this but not for that reason, that same reason why my Goodreads friends, liked this. I read this as a father and I liked it. Thank you, Tina, for recommending this book. Thank you, Sheryl for lending me this copy! Thank you, Maria for being my reading buddy. I struggled finishing this book. I felt the pressure but it was worth it! Thank you! Thank you! ...more I'd tried to hold myself apart, showing only what I wanted, doling out bits and pieces of who I was. But that only works for so long. Eventually, even the smallest fragments can't help but make a whole. Now that I finally have some time to put together a little bit of a coherent review, I'm excited to give a little more explanation to my thoughts. I've been seeing this author on the shelves of every big bookstore for years and never gave her a second look. And while I think that there was som I'd tried to hold myself apart, showing only what I wanted, doling out bits and pieces of who I was. But that only works for so long. Eventually, even the smallest fragments can't help but make a whole. Now that I finally have some time to put together a little bit of a coherent review, I'm excited to give a little more explanation to my thoughts. I've been seeing this author on the shelves of every big bookstore for years and never gave her a second look. And while I think that there was something missing that made this an absolute perfect and epic win for me, it also touched me in a way not many books do...and I think that deserves to be said. Maybe that's what you got when you stood over your grief, facing it finally. A sense of its depths, its area, the distance across, and the way over or around it, whichever you chose in the end. In many ways, this author's writing reminded me of Heather Demetrios's I'll Meet You There . This was an absolute favorite for me last year and an absolute shock. It wasn't particularly fast paced nor was it action packed. But every word, every page, every moment implanted itself into my heart and stole my breath. As the book progressed it was built up in such a way that didn't bore you, yet you just NEEDED something to happen....this book was a lot like that. However, it lacked all those intense, tugging emotions that made IMUT an emotionally packed gut punch. Leaning out my window, at the odd angle I was, I found myself almost level with the top of his head. A second later, when he looked up at me, we were face to face, and again, even under these circumstances, I was struck by how good looking he was, in that accidental, doesn't-even-know-it kind of way. Which only made it worse. Or better. Or whatever. When what I wanted to happen happened, it certainly made me a total fangirl, but by then I had invested a ton of time and wanted a little more. Does that make sense? I appreciated and loved the slow, syrupy feel of Dessen's world and her writing, but it lacked one key emotion to make me a forever fan: Obsession. The silence wasn't like the ones I'd known lately, though: it wasn't empty as much as chosen. There's an entirely different feel to quiet when you're with someone else, and at any moment it could be broken. Like the difference between a pause and an ending. Probably my other large gripe was our main character's mother. Come on. Grief does absolutely horrible, dreadful, unspeakable things to a person, but I don't think when your daughter is sitting there telling you how much she likes people and how good they are that her kinds of reactions were necessary. A little naivety? Sure. Blase tone? Okay. But that utter disregard for her daughter's feelings? It bothered me far more than I'm even letting on now. \"What were you two talking about?\" she whispered as Wes pulled the doors shut. \"Nothing,\" I said. \"Running.\" \"You should have seen your face,\" she said, her breath hot in my ear. \"Sa-wooooon.\" And then there was Wes...sweet, adorable, loyal Wes. Always there for her, always making her see herself the way she deserves to be seen . And I think that's my favorite part about Wes-He doesn't belittle her. He always makes her search deep within herself for what makes her happy and not other people. And he never makes her feel small. He is just one of those perfect guys and you can't help but to love him from the moment you meet him-no matter how small his part is, at first. Events conspired to bring you back to where you'd been. It was what you did then that made all the difference: it was all about potential. Now, I know I didn't say much, but I just had to say more than what I did below. This book, while not a heart-stopping and pulse-pounding thriller by any means, is a great coming of age story. And hell, I'm 26 years old and I found some value in the deep, heartfelt words this author wrote through the eyes and mind of Macy. We all can stand to learn something about ourselves and become introspective even if just for a moment. As it is, this book, while not an absolute favorite, came at a time where I looked deep within myself and saw a little of Macy. I don't want to live a life where I'm living for others and not myself ...and I'm glad I can still relate to books like this. What better way to get impartial advice than reading a wonderful book? There is no better way. For more of my reviews, please visit: ******** This was absolutely adorable! Extremely well-written and a lot deeper than I really thought it would be (I was shocked). It wasn't until I really got where I wanted to be in terms of the story that I realized I had been holding my breath in anticipation...and that's a good sign, to me. A tad slow in places, but building up to something deep , meaningful, and heartfelt. I need more books like this in my life-It's the same description I've used for other books, but I'll say it again: It was like sitting on the front porch on a hot summer day sipping lemonade with a light breeze. It was just that kind of book. And this Wes??Such a totally believable good guy who wasn't over the top perfect that I couldn't help but wish I had met him first. Sweet, kind, attentive, and only wants what is best for Macy. I fell in love with him slowly..then all at once (hehe bad-stealing lines from other books..). RTC, maybe. Depends how my weekend goes! :P ...more 4 Stars! What a sweet and lovely story! This was my first book by Miss Dessen, and will not likely be my last. The writing is engaging and effortless--and the way the author realistically tackles grief is encouraging. Macy is a teen who strives for the impossible--perfection. Her father's sudden death has impaired her relationship with her mother, to whom she barely speaks. Her 'braniac', emotionless boyfriend who possesses the personality of a twig leaves her for summer camp...then she meets We 4 Stars! What a sweet and lovely story! This was my first book by Miss Dessen, and will not likely be my last. The writing is engaging and effortless--and the way the author realistically tackles grief is encouraging. Macy is a teen who strives for the impossible--perfection. Her father's sudden death has impaired her relationship with her mother, to whom she barely speaks. Her 'braniac', emotionless boyfriend who possesses the personality of a twig leaves her for summer camp...then she meets Wes and the rest of the perky catering gang who will bring life to her monotonous, boring summer. The relationship between Macy and Wes was tender and I enjoyed their ongoing, adorable game of 'truth.'\u00a0Although I was hoping for a little more development with in their interactions, their connection possessed the memorable innocence which can only be obtained through youth. The secondary characters were fun and also struggled internally--proving that imperfection is not only acceptable, but endearing. This story left me with a smile and a warm heart. Its messages of hope, overcoming grief, and finding love were ones I hope to instill in my own daughter. Very charming book, and perfectly appropriate for teens. Book Stats: \u25aa\t Genre/Category: Young Adult \u25aa\t Steam Caliber: Clean \u25aa Romance: Tender and sweet \u25aa\t Characters: Well developed and layered. \u25aa\t Plot: A broken girl finds hope in friendship and young love. \u25aa Writing: Beautiful, effortless, engaging. \u25aa POV: 1st Person: Heroine \u25aa\t Cliffhanger: None/Standalone \u25aa HEA? (view spoiler) [ Yes (hide spoiler) ] [\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]>[\"br\"]> ...more I hadn't even heard of Sarah Dessen until I came across this book on my frend Mahyars read shelf. I noticed the 5 stars and as we share a liking for certain types of books thought I'd investigate this author further. It didn't take much persuading, 1st person POV, heavy on the emotion, I was definately up for it. And I wasn't disappointed! Oh no this book has to be one of my all time favourites. I'm not going to give a re-tell of the story because other reviewers have done that,but what I will d I hadn't even heard of Sarah Dessen until I came across this book on my frend Mahyars read shelf. I noticed the 5 stars and as we share a liking for certain types of books thought I'd investigate this author further. It didn't take much persuading, 1st person POV, heavy on the emotion, I was definately up for it. And I wasn't disappointed! Oh no this book has to be one of my all time favourites. I'm not going to give a re-tell of the story because other reviewers have done that,but what I will do is try to tell you how this story made me feel......So here goes. Having lost a parent when I was about the same age as the heroine Macy I understand the emotions running through this story. I know how difficult it is for the remaining parent to try and be the person everyone knows and also grieve for their partner. To lose a partner is different to losing a parent. I also understand why Macy ended up with Jason (there is always a danger when we lose someone we love that the turmoil of our emotions attracts us to people who are in the long term not good for us (too safe or too wild or too contoling)) , and was so glad that he was out of the picture for most of the story. So when Macy decides to live dangerously and go to work for Wish I was overjoyed this was the next step for her, to escape the safe, and emotionally numb and sterile life that she had been living and start to find herself again. I loved all of her new friends, Delia who plays opposite to her Mom, and Kristy who takes on the role of sibling /best freind, and best of all Wes who was emotionally far older than his years and balanced the emotionally retarded character of Jason. Whilst Monica and Bert have the role of younger siblings. So the guys from Wish become a kind of surrogate family (you notice the only father figure is Pete who never really plays an active part in story so is distant like Carolines (Macys sister) hubby. I think all of these things hilight the choices and decisions Macy had to face, in this, an improtant turning point in her life. I liked that an already emotive issue was not further complicated by sex, with Macy having to choose which path to take with regard to that. The only downside for me was, what would Macy have done had Caroline not told her mother about Wes (Wes and Macy form a close friendship and Macys mom disapproves to the point where she activly prevents Macy from seeing him) and his good character, had Macys mom continued to exert her control over Macy would Macy have been strong enough to disobey and go her own way? Having been under the emotional restrictions of a controlling parent I can say from my POV probably not, she would have got back with Jason and spent the rest of her life with an emotionally retarded man ruled by his ability to control people via a mindless set of lists. So thumbs up to Caroline, who orchestrated and manipulated her mother with no-one knowing, and in doing so set the wheels in motion for everyone to start the healing process and find themselves. So, would I read anything by Sarah Dessen again? You bet! ...more \u201cFor any one of us our forever could end in an hour, or a hundred years from now. You can never know for sure, so you\u2019d better make every second count.\u201d High Points. Not a wizard/mind-reader/necromancer/vampire/werewolf/Cornish Piskie (I feel there is lack of Cornish Piskies in YA novels....maybe I'll remedy that soon)/zombie in sight. HURRAH. Outstanding supporting cast. Food (seriously, I put on about five stone just reading this book). Best friends. Good grief and real emotions. Being the perso \u201cFor any one of us our forever could end in an hour, or a hundred years from now. You can never know for sure, so you\u2019d better make every second count.\u201d High Points. Not a wizard/mind-reader/necromancer/vampire/werewolf/Cornish Piskie (I feel there is lack of Cornish Piskies in YA novels....maybe I'll remedy that soon)/zombie in sight. HURRAH. Outstanding supporting cast. Food (seriously, I put on about five stone just reading this book). Best friends. Good grief and real emotions. Being the person you want to be not the person they want you to be. Boys with tattoos. Girls with go go boots. Running out of petrol. Arts and crafts. Sa-wooon. Low Points. This book was really quite slow at points and there were a lot of description that didn\u2019t add much to the story. (Did we need four consecutive pages about houses?!) But it got there in the end and I ended up enjoying it a lot and I will not be shunned by the entire YA community for treason against Queen Dessen. HURRAH. Heroine. <---C>Macy Queen</---C>, 16, wants to be perfect and I have to admit alarm bells began ringing pretty early on in this book\u2026 but then they shut off when I realised that just because she wanted to be perfect doesn\u2019t mean she actually was.Which is great because perfection is overrated. So, even though for the first couple of chapters Macy kept her personality cards very close to her chest, I could see through her poker face\u2026 and I don\u2019t even know how to play poker (even when we play for Smarties on the table instead of money..and I love Smarties!). So even though I know she wanted me to, I did not write Macy off. Because I\u2019m stubborn and I knew there was the fun-time Macy in there somewhere. As the book progressed, Macy started to stand up for herself and develop that little thing we call a backbone and start living the life she knew was out there. Macy had a lot to deal with in the past couple of years and had built up lots of sturdy walls around her to stop anyone seeing that she is finding grieving for her father difficult (read: human). I know I\u2019ve said it before but there is something so satisfying about seeing a character come into their own and fight for their right to party be someone they\u2019ve been trying to squash because they\u2019re afraid. And if there is a sexy boy involved, then that's just fine too. Love Interest. Jason. Seriously\u2026 what was he? Are there any seventeen year old boys actually like that? Do they truly exist? And if so why did Macy, as a girl with a pulse, stay with him so long? I guess nothing says passion like lists. Lists Well, hello Wes with your tattoo and your past . Which is different to a past because it\u2019s in italics exciting and dangerous and sexy. Even though it was so very obvious that you and Macy were going to end up canoodling as soon as you loped (I don\u2019t think I\u2019ve ever met a boy who loped. One day, Jo. One day ) onto the page. But I was OK with it because, although you had a past , you never made a secret about it and you never kept anything from Macy because you felt she couldn\u2019t handle it and it was never an issue and Macy didn't go mental over it. Which was refreshing because I find girls often get blind sighted by a boy with a past . Yes, my dear Wes, you have baggage but you have managed to fold it into a nice and stylish bag that you can carry around with ease that doesn\u2019t drag you down and make you insufferable and boring. You are also a massive goof, you\u2019re such a cute big brother and a loyal nephew and you are scared of clowns, which pretty much makes us soul mates. And you and Macy are really cute together and you encouraged her to be the girl she was too afraid to be just in case she slipped up and was no longer perfect. Also, you can weld. Which is always hot. Best Friend(s). I loved their interactions and their tomfooleries and the way they embraced Macy, no questions asked. Also, they have an ambulance as their method of transport. AN AMBULANCE. It\u2019s safe to say that I would go out with vommy Sherman from Shreveport to be friends with Kristy, Monica, Delia and Bert. Theme Tune. Live Forever- Oasis. This song will always remind me of being young and giving a metaphorical middle finger to all the bitchy, stuck-up people who work in libraries who look down on you because you\u2019re not \u2018perfect\u2019. \u201cWe see things they\u2019ll never see.\u201d I\u2019ll take living passionately over perfection any day, thank you very much. Angst Scale. 9/10. There was great deal of angst in this book. Whether it was Macy and her grieving for the death of her father or Macy always striving for unattainable perfection, their was always the sense of angst looming in the background. And as I mentioned early\u2026 this book was a tad wordy and it sometimes felt like I was being clobbered over the head with a brick made of teenage emotion, but it fit well with the pace of the book. Because even though it was heavy going in places, when it was funny it was really funny. I was snorting and hiccoughing with laughter here there and everywhere with this book. I liked the dichotomy of trivial angst vs real life emotions that Dessen sets up because it allowed me to understand the difficulties that Macy feels and her insecurities and allowed me to not only understand her but to relate to her. I thought the way that Dessen depicted losing a family member was effective and the raw emotions that come after death were written perfectly . I especially liked the parts with the products that Macy\u2019s dad bought from the catalogues\u2026so poignant. BUT , I\u2019m OK with boy angst when I care for the boy and think he\u2019s worth your angst and fretting. But Macy\u2026 why did you even care about Jason? He did not deserve the amount of angst you gave him. He wrote lists, for goodness sake. Lists . Recommended For. People who like contemporary YA books. People who don\u2019t really like contemporary YA books but who are willing to give them a try. People who like boys with a past . People who have always wanted to quit a job in a dramatic way. People who find welding a sexy past time. People who like driving around in converted ambulances with excellent best friends. People who like meatballs\u2026. so basically, everyone. ...more Original post One More Page I've been trying to think of the best way to review this book, because I feel like the first review I wrote for <+++>The Truth About Forever</+++> did not do it any justice. The thing is, I don't know how to write a proper review for this book without squealing or \"sa-woon\"-ing so much. Because believe me, I know I did that so many times when I was rereading this book. But let me try again. Sarah Dessen's The Truth About Forever is one of my favorite books of all time. It's no Original post One More Page I've been trying to think of the best way to review this book, because I feel like the first review I wrote for The Truth About Forever did not do it any justice. The thing is, I don't know how to write a proper review for this book without squealing or \"sa-woon\"-ing so much. Because believe me, I know I did that so many times when I was rereading this book. But let me try again. Sarah Dessen's The Truth About Forever is one of my favorite books of all time. It's not my first Dessen, but it's the book that made me love Dessen and made her one of my auto-buy authors. It's one book I've reread multiple times and still get all swoony and happy and wishing for a romance like Macy and Wes did. Yes, even with their drama, because it made the ending so much satisfying in the end. The Truth About Forever is about Macy Queen, whose life spun out of control when her dad died in front of her. Macy tried to hold it together for the sake of her family, hiding her grief and seeking perfection, thinking that this would help her mother who seeks perfection in everything she does as well, her own way of dealing with loss. The story starts with Macy's boyfriend, Jason, leaving for Brain Camp and Macy facing a long summer with her strict schedule and routine. She's okay, she always thought. Until one day, she meets the Wish Catering crew. One bad afternoon at her summer job, with a bad email to boot, she joins Wish, makes new friends, and meets Wes -- the seemingly perfect guy with his own not-so-clean past, who likes flaws. Things turn interesting for Macy as she gets to know these people, and as she realizes that maybe it's not so bad if her strictly-scheduled life unravels and she lets chaos in bit by bit. Ah, this book. I think what makes me love this book more than I loved This Lullaby is how much I could relate to Macy. I'm fortunate enough to have my parents here with me so I can't relate to Macy at that front, but the schedules? The need to be as perfect as I can be (sometimes, anyway)? Oh, I've been there. At the next rereads, I found that I wanted to shake Macy so hard -- she needs to cry! She needs to snap out of the illusion that she needs to be perfect to hold things together. She needs to let go and reach for her mom so they could grieve together! Ah Macy, why do you frustrate me so much? But it served as a good starting point. If there was anything that Sarah Dessen really knows, it's how to write a story that seeps into you and hooks you, pulling you in up until the last page. There's no need for magic or any supernatural creatures -- just plain everyday things magnified, with added significance. The conversations could be just any normal conversation, but somehow they pack a punch. For example: \"Honestly,\" I said. \"What?\" \"Come on. You have to admit it's sort of ridiculous.\" \"What is?\" Now that I had to define it, I found myself struggling for the right words. \"You know,\" I said, then figured Kristy had really summed it up best. \"The sa-woon.\" \"The what?\" \"Wes, come on,\" I said. \"Are you seriously not aware of how girls stare at you?\" How cute is that? There's really nothing new with the story, but thanks to the writing and the vivid characters, it becomes a little bit extraordinary. This book is one of the reasons I appreciate characters more, why I believe that even the most common storyline can be interesting when the roles are played by strong, well-developed characters. And then there's Wes . Dessen boys are well known among readers, and Wes is definitely my favorite. He just seems so... perfect. Strange to see a seemingly perfect guy in a book that tells the main character that perfection isn't everything, don't you think? Believe me, I'm still trying to find some kind of flaw in Wes. But I guess that's what crushes are -- it's so hard to find a flaw in them. I think I'm not that infatuated with Wes that I'd try and look for someone exactly like him (but hey, I wouldn't mind, haha), but I would like to have the same kind of development that Macy and Wes had. Their relationship is one of the most authentic ones I've read -- built on shared experiences and conversations. Now where is that guy I could play a game of Truth with? So yeah, even on my third reread, I still loved The Truth About Forever . It reminds me of why I started reading YA and why I like the contemporary genre. If you're looking for a good contemporary YA novel you can sink your teeth into, or if you're looking for a good Sarah Dessen novel to start with, I highly recommend The Truth About Forever . Read it and sa-woon . :) ...more This is a story of a young lady,MACY QUEEN, who is struggling to find herself for almost one year and a half now,after her father's sudden death,which she hasn't really grieved yet,and somehow blamed herself for that's why she never talk to anyone about her real emotions..not even to her mother or her sister. To hide her emotions,she tried to be a perfect person for her mother (who never talk much and lacks affection because like her,her mother also shields her grief by keeping herself busy) and This is a story of a young lady,MACY QUEEN, who is struggling to find herself for almost one year and a half now,after her father's sudden death,which she hasn't really grieved yet,and somehow blamed herself for that's why she never talk to anyone about her real emotions..not even to her mother or her sister. To hide her emotions,she tried to be a perfect person for her mother (who never talk much and lacks affection because like her,her mother also shields her grief by keeping herself busy) and for her perfect boyfriend named Jason (who only thinks of himself) who went to Brain Camp for summer,leaving his job on her at the library. But then,she never felt happy working in this place until she met the \"Wish Catering\" team,and met Wes (my favorite character here). One thing I loved about this book,is the way how Macy and Wes developed their friendship,and the way their relationship built up,starting with the \"Truth\" game that they played whenever they got the chance. What I didn't like was..some of the chapters were slow and confusing because there were moments when the story's describing one feature of Macy's life,and suddenly,it will plunge into another aspect or scene. And I felt like the ending had been rushed up a bit. The reason why I'm giving this book a four star ratings instead of three,is because I loved the WISH Catering characters! I enjoyed them because they were well developed,and they have portrayed their roles effectively. Over all,this one's a good book and I'm highly recommending it to young adults as it came out as a neat,wholesome romance. Thanks to my dear friend,BOOTS for recommending this to me!^^ ...more No one could tell you: you just had to go through it on your own. If you were lucky, you came out on the other side and understood. If you didn't, you kept getting thrust back, retracing those steps, until you finally got it right. The Truth About Forever is one of the few YA books I loved. The story is captivating, so touching and so real. Engaging writing style, loveable characters, and Wes who is just the most perfect fictional boyfriend ever. Aww, I wish he was real\u2026 I finally felt I was on No one could tell you: you just had to go through it on your own. If you were lucky, you came out on the other side and understood. If you didn't, you kept getting thrust back, retracing those steps, until you finally got it right. The Truth About Forever is one of the few YA books I loved. The story is captivating, so touching and so real. Engaging writing style, loveable characters, and Wes who is just the most perfect fictional boyfriend ever. Aww, I wish he was real\u2026 I finally felt I was on my way. Everyone had a forever, but given a choice, this would be mine. The one that began in this moment, with Wes, in a kiss that took my breath away, then gave it back\u2014leaving me astounded, amazed, and most of all, alive. Highly recommended! :) ...more sa-woon..! I am definitely a fan of Wes and Macy's! If Dessen keeps leaving me with this oh happy, happy feeling then I am well on my way to adding her to my list of favorite YA contemporary authors. What is it with these authors and their formulae? The very fact that there is a pattern followed should put me off. I mean, there can only be just so many ways to tell the same story, right? But, see, I am not put off, because with each book they offer up I find myself drawn in: There's John Green sa-woon..! I am definitely a fan of Wes and Macy's! If Dessen keeps leaving me with this oh happy, happy feeling then I am well on my way to adding her to my list of favorite YA contemporary authors. What is it with these authors and their formulae? The very fact that there is a pattern followed should put me off. I mean, there can only be just so many ways to tell the same story, right? But, see, I am not put off, because with each book they offer up I find myself drawn in: There's John Green with his geeky/quirky boy (who is attractive nonetheless) with trusty sidekick/best friend on a road trip for a mysterious girl. There's Marchetta with her family drama (because pared down that is what Mackee/Francesca etc had to deal with\u2026 Peace, Marchetta fans! I too love her!) And now, there\u2019s Sarah Dessen\u2019s one girl, one boy and one summer thing. And yet, I LOVE EVERY ONE of their stories! The Truth about Forever definitely left me grinning and sa-wooning at certain moments. But it wasn't just them pair of Wes and Macy that has me giddy. It's all of them... supporting cast and all! I found the sibling relations quite like my own. They were all so darned protective; their commonly had history just there to be seen. There\u2019s Wes for Bert, Kristy for monotone Monica and much later Caroline over Macy. And Macy? Well, she made me laugh, but she had me gnashing my teeth too! Her wanting to be perfect; her knowing it impossible, were these traits endearing or annoying? More likely the latter, yet I still rooted for her. When she finally decided on what she wanted, I went, \u201cAt last!\u201d Then there's Wes. Sa-woon. Nuf\u2019 said. ...more I tried to give Sarah Dessen another chance. Unfortunately it did not work out. This is the type of contemporary I shy away from -really, really slow build up of romance and lots of real life issues (for this reason I steer clear from some of the hugely famous contemporaries with cancer, etc.). A lot of people love this kind of thing but I guess I am just not the right reader. I choose books as an escape and when I read about realistic characters & horrible events in a contemporary setting i I tried to give Sarah Dessen another chance. Unfortunately it did not work out. This is the type of contemporary I shy away from -really, really slow build up of romance and lots of real life issues (for this reason I steer clear from some of the hugely famous contemporaries with cancer, etc.). A lot of people love this kind of thing but I guess I am just not the right reader. I choose books as an escape and when I read about realistic characters & horrible events in a contemporary setting it just brings me down:( ...more This is my favorite book in the whole wide world forever and ever. Reviewing it would kill the magic. Just read it, please. That's all I can say. Now, now, now! Excerpt: \"You should have seen your face,\" she said, her breath hot in my ear. \"Sa-woooon.\" I think this was the first book I read of Sarah Dessen and that made me love her forever. Enough said. 4 stars \"That was the thing. You just never knew. Forever was so many different things. It was always changing, it was what everything was really all about. It was twenty minutes, or a hundred years, or just this instant, or any instant I wished would last and last. But there was only one truth about forever that really mattered, and that was this: it was happening.\" This was my first Sarah Dessen book and it was just what I needed after the craziness of ACoMaF. This book is about Macy, a girl who 4 stars \"That was the thing. You just never knew. Forever was so many different things. It was always changing, it was what everything was really all about. It was twenty minutes, or a hundred years, or just this instant, or any instant I wished would last and last. But there was only one truth about forever that really mattered, and that was this: it was happening.\" This was my first Sarah Dessen book and it was just what I needed after the craziness of ACoMaF. This book is about Macy, a girl who lost her father a year and a half before and who is still trying to handle her grief in her own way. One of those ways being by making herself as perfect as she can be. Insert the perfect boyfriend, Jason. Sheldon Cooper from the Big Bang Theory is literally who I kept picturing as Jason...except that Sheldon is way more endearing than Jason...at least to me. While perfect boyfriend Jason is away for the summer at Brain Camp, Macy agrees to take over his job at the info desk at the library while he's gone. She spends her time when not at the library in her quiet house, doing SAT prep work to prepare for her senior year and helping her mom out with her buliding company, that she now runs alone. One night during an event her mother is hosting, Macy gets involved in trying to help out with the caterers, which leads to the woman who runs the catering company, Delia, offering Macy a job. She initially turns down the offer. During email exchanges with Jason, Macy complains about how she's not enjoying her co-workers attitudes at the library and closes out the email with an 'I love you'. His response is that he feels that Macy is becoming too dependent of him and is not taking her job at the library seriously, so because of these reasons, he feels they should take a break from their relationship for the summer. He wants them to meet up after he returns from camp and see if they should return to their relationship or if they should make the break permanent. Feeling lost and a little reckless, she accepts Delia's employment offer and in doing so, falls into a unique and wonderful group that accepts her immediately, despite the flaws she tries to keep hidden. Her new friends make her evaluate whether she really needs to be perfect all the time. I really enjoyed this book and zoomed through it pretty quickly. Even the secondary characters were pretty well developed and I loved seeing all the different relationships throughout the book evolve and change. I also could relate to Macy because of our shared loss of our dads. Reading about her and her family's grief was hard at times, because of how real it was. I will definitely be reading more of Dessen's novels very soon. ...more Wes was cute and all and I enjoyed their interactions. All the rest of the characters in the catering business felt real and were fun to read about but I WAS SO FRUSTRATED BY MACY (the narrator) THIS ENTIRE BOOK. It really took away from my enjoyment of the story. I just LOVED this book! I really love the metaphors and the similie's... so great! Oh and your gonna blow when you hear this! The main characters LOVE waffles! See, see what did I tell you Queso... EVERYBODY love's waffles! Excerpt:\"Now, see,\" Wes said, nodding at my plate, \"this is going to blow your mind.\" I looked at him. \"It's a waffle, not the second coming.\" \"Dont be so sure. You haven't tasted it yet.\" I spread some butter on my waffle, then doused it with syrup before cutting off a smal I just LOVED this book! I really love the metaphors and the similie's... so great! Oh and your gonna blow when you hear this! The main characters LOVE waffles! See, see what did I tell you Queso... EVERYBODY love's waffles! Excerpt:\"Now, see,\" Wes said, nodding at my plate, \"this is going to blow your mind.\" I looked at him. \"It's a waffle, not the second coming.\" \"Dont be so sure. You haven't tasted it yet.\" I spread some butter on my waffle, then doused it with syrup before cutting off a small bite. Wes watched as I put it in my mouth. He hadn't even started his yet, as if first, he wanted to hear my verdict. Which was, pretty good. Damn good, actually. \"Knew it,\" he said, as if he'd read my mind. \"Maybe not the second coming, but a religious experience of sorts.\" Chapter XI. Page 221. Ahh... books like these are COMPLETE! Unlike those frilly frilly kind of books who DON'T have waffle's mentioned in thier book... THIS BOOKS JUSTS BLOW'S YOUR MIND! It's like a great book with the topping of delicious waffles! And the ending... simply amazing! Well in real life that was much too many events for one day... but hello, it is a book! I hated the mom in some parts and made me wanna like... RIP HER TO SHREDS?! But the way the author described exactly WHY she was acting this way was phenomenal~! The author truely does explore the mind and feelings of the main character making it seem so real! Ahaha Bert makes me laugh. :D ...more I know, I know, you might be thinking, PINKY WHAT HAPPENED? WHERE WERE YOU, YOU HAVEN'T BEEN ON HERE FOR A WEEK! But I'll explain why and I am going to rant a lot so I apologize in advance. :) Before I start this review, I want to talk to you about something, and I want to know what you think about this. I want to talk to you about: For the past few days, I have been loaded up with homework. Most of the homework is assignments but we get a long period of time to work on them. For example, one I know, I know, you might be thinking, PINKY WHAT HAPPENED? WHERE WERE YOU, YOU HAVEN'T BEEN ON HERE FOR A WEEK! But I'll explain why and I am going to rant a lot so I apologize in advance. :) Before I start this review, I want to talk to you about something, and I want to know what you think about this. I want to talk to you about: For the past few days, I have been loaded up with homework. Most of the homework is assignments but we get a long period of time to work on them. For example, one of my culminating assignments are due on November 7th and it was assigned to us on October 22. And the thing about me is that I don't like procrastinating because of all the stress. So, I finish the certain assignment in one day, and if I do procrastinate, I feel horrible and there is this sick feeling in my stomach. You might think that I am over-reacting but this is what I went through for the past week. Whenever I tried to read a book or relax, I remember that I have an assignment and I stop. Instead, I work on the assignment and then it is already morning and I have to prepare for another workload. I'm not complaining, but I am saying this because at times I feel like there is something wrong with me. I always want to finish things and I never actually have time to myself. But after I am done the assignment, I feel so relieved and that is how I feel today. Yesterday, I stayed up writing a 10-paged essay and when I was finished, I felt so relieved. I have a whole day to myself and it made me really happy. So what I want to know is, are any of you going through the same feelings? Or am I the only one? And since I have this whole day to myself, I finally finished this book. And although I love Sarah Dessen, I feel like this book was not one of my favorites. So I guess its time for my review, these are my thoughts about the book and sorry about the huge rant. :) \u201cThere is never a time or place for true love. It happens accidentally, in a heartbeat, in a single flashing, throbbing moment.\u201d I feel like this book was really good, but I didn't love it. There were so many things that I have to say and what I wish were in this book. Sometimes, I felt like i didn't enjoy this book because of my procrastinating issue, but when I thought about it, it has nothing to do with that. This is how I felt and I guess I was trying to convince myself to love this book. Most of Sarah Dessen's books are amazing, but I am not a huge fan of this one. :( \u201cIt's just that...I just think that some things are meant to be broken. Imperfect. Chaotic. It's the universe's way of providing contrast, you know? There have to be a few holes in the road. It's how life is.\u201d This book is about a girl named Macy who is portrayed as the girl who is \"Perfect\". The only reason she feels the need to be perfect is because of her perfect boyfriend Jason. Jason a smart guy who only cares about his future and tries to push everything that is in the way of it. Before Jason goes to Brain camp, he decides to train and help Macy get a job at the library. But all of a sudden, Macy meets the chaotic catering group and her whole life turns upside down. That's where she meets new friends and actually feels happy. \u201cI like flaws. I think they make things interesting.\u201d The characters were one of the reasons of why I was confused on whether I liked this book or not. I didn't really like Macy but I did understand her, AT TIMES. Wes was awesome and he was one of my favorite characters who always had your back. Monica didn't say much but I loved her phrase, \"DONNEVEN,\" I started using it at school with my friends and it is hilarious. Caroline is the best older sister, she looks out for you and even spoke up for Macy. Jason was like this robot who is hard to talk to because he always wants to talk about smart and boring topics, (in my opinion). Macy's mom frustrated me so much, every single time I read something with her on the page, I would feel so angry. Bert was another one of my favorite characters, he is so easy to relate to. Delia is so different from the usual characters I read from. And finally, Kristy is another one of my favorite characters. As you can see, I have a lot of favorite characters but all of them are the side characters. I wasn't a huge fan of the main character and maybe that is why I didn't enjoy the book. \u201cWhat you need, what you deserve, is a guy who adores you for what you are. Who doesn't see you as a project, but a prize. you know?\u201d Another thing I loved about this book were the different things that the characters do to each other. Like Bert and Wes's game of GOTCHA! Wes and Macy's game of Truth, which I really loved. Or Kristy and Macy's SAWOON thing! It was the best because all of this was because of the characters bonding and getting to know each other better. This all makes the book seem more realistic and really fun to read. It was an enjoyable experience and I loved it so much. All the characters were hilarious but I wish we got to hear more of Monica talking. I felt like it would be interesting to learn more about the different characters. \u201cGrief can be a burden, but also an anchor. You get used to the weight, how it holds you in place.\u201d There are so many things that I wish were added to this story. I felt like the ending was a little rushed and all the problems were solved in the last few pages of the book. I wish we could read more after the last few pages of the book. The first few pages of the book were really slow-paced but it was really interesting once Delia and her catering crew came in. I love the catering crew so much and all the chaos is the best! \u201cIf this was my forever, I wouldn't want to spend it here.\" Sometimes Macy's mom made me do this, and my mom would walk by, thinking that I am the most craziest daughter ever! Anyway, I recommend this book to those who have already read Sarah Dessen's book. If you haven't read a Sarah Dessen book, I recommend that you don't read this first, I highly recommend Just Listen, The Lullaby, What Happened to Goodbye, Lock and Key and Along for the Ride. \u201cThe truth about forever is that it is happening right now\u201d ...more I\u2019ve been wanting to read this book for a long time and finally got around to getting a copy and sitting down and doing it. Believe it of not my first Sarah Dessen novel was Just Listen. Sarah who? I know I was hiding in a rock underneath six maybe seven feet of densely packed soil, anywho, after I read Just Listen I was an instant fan. I read some of her earlier work, which was a lot different that her recent novels, but still enjoyable. And everyone I talked to insisted that I had to read The I\u2019ve been wanting to read this book for a long time and finally got around to getting a copy and sitting down and doing it. Believe it of not my first Sarah Dessen novel was Just Listen. Sarah who? I know I was hiding in a rock underneath six maybe seven feet of densely packed soil, anywho, after I read Just Listen I was an instant fan. I read some of her earlier work, which was a lot different that her recent novels, but still enjoyable. And everyone I talked to insisted that I had to read The Truth About Forever, and I have. Finally. Sarah didn\u2019t disappoint. The Truth About Forever is on my top favorite list, following Just Listen and This Lullaby. Macy is dreading her summer working at the library while her brainiac bf goes to brain camp. Where else would teenage adolescents spend their summer! Needless to say their relationship isn\u2019t the best. Personally I think Jason has intimacy issues, but that is a whole other story. When the non-intimate Jason breaks up with Macy via email (how tacky right? I know?) for saying I love you, of all things! Macy finally has the push she needs to break out of her shell. The shell she has been in since she saw her father die. She has this routine, I guess you would call it that but I say, the girl has no life! Anyway she ends up taking this catering job at night along with her responsibilities at the library. Who wouldn\u2019t kill for a job at the library, hello first dibs on books! But Macy must not care much about first dibs on books because she hates her job at the library or maybe she just hates the two snobs she works with, either way she finds some kind of refuge working at the catering gig. She also meets the handsome and mysterious Wes. Wes, the wonderful guy that he is, finally gets Macy to open up about the death of her dad and deal with it. Which makes him totally boyfriend material in my mind, but for Macy the answers aren\u2019t so easy or maybe there just aren't that simple. Even though the story was about dealing with grief which isn\u2019t exactly the easiest or happiest of topics, the story was fun and thought provoking. The truth about forever is that it changes, forever can mean something one day and change the next. What you have to do is figure out what forever means for you today. ...more The Truth About Forever, by Sarah Dessen, is my favorite book by this author thus far. I\u2019ve become a fan of Dessen\u2019s stories, and I feel she knocked it out of the ball park with this book. Her main characters are extremely likeable and easy to associate with and the plot is captivating and well developed. This is such a great story that starts, develops and ends the way it should. My fave Dessen book by far. Macy Queen has a strained relationship with her mother after the sudden death of her fath The Truth About Forever, by Sarah Dessen, is my favorite book by this author thus far. I\u2019ve become a fan of Dessen\u2019s stories, and I feel she knocked it out of the ball park with this book. Her main characters are extremely likeable and easy to associate with and the plot is captivating and well developed. This is such a great story that starts, develops and ends the way it should. My fave Dessen book by far. Macy Queen has a strained relationship with her mother after the sudden death of her father. They are grieving in their own way and have yet to talk about and deal with their loss. During the summer, Macy takes on a job with Wish Catering, which begins to change her life and allow the healing process to begin for her. In this job, she meets Wes, Delia and some great friends, and as her mother notices the changes in her daughter, she tries to bring back the old Macy, which isn\u2019t a good thing. During this summer with Wish Catering, Macy realizes the importance of communication, friendship and love. Macy is such a mature and sympathetic character, which the reader can\u2019t help but care for. Her relationship with her mother, sister and friends is refreshing to read as I really liked the way she treats those she cares for by trying to do the right thing. I truly enjoyed this story and would recommend it without hesitation. ...more I\u2019m a little hesitant to write a less than glowing review, given how beloved Dessen\u2019s novels are, but I just don\u2019t think this is an author for me. That\u2019s not to say Dessen isn\u2019t a good writer \u2013 I finished The Truth About Forever in about 4 hours and was compelled to keep reading through to the end. I just found the whole story pretty underwhelming. I should point out contemporary fiction is not something I read a lot of, mainly because I don\u2019t usually find it that interesting \u2013 unless it is very I\u2019m a little hesitant to write a less than glowing review, given how beloved Dessen\u2019s novels are, but I just don\u2019t think this is an author for me. That\u2019s not to say Dessen isn\u2019t a good writer \u2013 I finished The Truth About Forever in about 4 hours and was compelled to keep reading through to the end. I just found the whole story pretty underwhelming. I should point out contemporary fiction is not something I read a lot of, mainly because I don\u2019t usually find it that interesting \u2013 unless it is very hard-hitting and gritty \u2013 so perhaps I\u2019m not the best person to judge these particular books. I would define Dessen\u2019s novels as a light summer read with more weight than most. To be fair \u2013 I think she tackles subjects like grief well, while at the same time not allowing the story to become depressing \u2013 a difficult balance to maintain. Unfortunately, I found the characters pretty forgettable, especially Macy. I know she was numb as a way to coping with her father\u2019s death but I have to admit I found her very dull as a consequence and found her justification of Jason\u2019s behaviour frustrating. I did like Kristy and Bert but for a book of this length I would have liked to have explored the other characters in a lot more depth. Wes was nice enough, but didn\u2019t leave much of an impression and I never felt any sort of spark or chemistry between him and Macy. Their relationship just sort of\u2026 happened. This is a very character driven book with very little plot \u2013 and sadly I just didn\u2019t connect with Macy. Ultimately, Dessen\u2019s writing just doesn\u2019t have enough impact for me. If an author is tackling a difficult subject \u2013 like the loss of a parent \u2013 I prefer a raw, powerful novel. The Truth About Forever was just too sedate for me \u2013 and though I was intrigued to see Macy finally confront the loss of her father and assert herself \u2013 it was a long time coming and in the end, somewhat anti-climatic. While I doubt I will be picking up any of Dessen\u2019s other books anytime soon \u2013 I would certainly recommend her. Dessen is a talented writer, whose stories often contain an important message for teenagers \u2013 and there aren\u2019t any other YA books quite like hers. Definitely worth a read. ...more For the longest time, whenever someone reviewed one of Sarah Dessen\u2019s books, I had to start my comment with the words \u201c I\u2019ve never actually read anything by her before\u2026 \u201d and to be honest, I was getting tired of it. So when an audiobook came my way, I decided to change that once and for all. You all know that contemporary YA makes me uncomfortable at times, even when it\u2019s not about something I can easily relate to. To make matters worse, The Truth About Forever hit too close to home, but instead o For the longest time, whenever someone reviewed one of Sarah Dessen\u2019s books, I had to start my comment with the words \u201c I\u2019ve never actually read anything by her before\u2026 \u201d and to be honest, I was getting tired of it. So when an audiobook came my way, I decided to change that once and for all. You all know that contemporary YA makes me uncomfortable at times, even when it\u2019s not about something I can easily relate to. To make matters worse, The Truth About Forever hit too close to home, but instead of abandoning it like a coward I usually am, I kept listening\u2026 and I soon found myself wanting to hug it and run away from it at the same time. Like Macy, I know all about being that girl whose dad died. The weight you carry when you lose the most important person in your life is as familiar to me as my own skin. Therefore, feeling her struggle was easy for me and I especially understood her need to tiptoe around her mother, trying to avoid hurting her at all costs. It was clear right from the beginning that Macy\u2019s relationship with Jason was based on all the wrong things. It was convenient, isolating and passionless, not something a sixteen-year-old girl should be in permanently\u2026 or at all. Right from the start, I saw Jason as just another integral piece of her coping mechanism, and as such, he didn\u2019t invoke any kind of emotional response for me, except mild annoyance and maybe a bit of pity. Enter Wes, a normal boy with his own problems and a kind soul. He and Macy start a tentative friendship and, through an ongoing game of Truth, open up to each other. Suddenly Macy finds herself talking about things she\u2019s never talked about before, and the experience is liberating. Theirs is an extremely slow-burning romance, and the emphasis is always on their friendship, although it doesn\u2019t hurt that Wes is as gorgeous as they come. The Truth about Forever is, in some small way, a love story. But more than that, it is a story about friendships and grief, about learning to communicate when staying quiet is the safest thing to do. The narrator, Stina Nielsen, is excellent. Her voice is calm and soothing, and she avoided bringing unnecessary drama to the story. There were times when her voices sounded just a tad too old to belong to a 16-year-old girl, but that\u2019s a minor thing that can easily be overlooked. I admit there were times when I wanted to drop the audio and just read the rest because 12 hours is a very long time to spend listening to a fairly uneventful book, but I\u2019m glad I didn\u2019t give up. It made the final part so much more rewarding. Sarah Dessen and I have just started our adventure, and I still need to read something by both Sarah Ockler and Sara Zarr or you people will come at me with pitchforks. But there\u2019s no need for extreme measures. I promised, didn\u2019t I? ...more Re-read 2011 Okay so, I just had to do a re-read and oh my God do I love this book! Definitely my favorite by Dessen! For me, The Truth About Forever just has it all. An emotional and heartwarming story, a main character whom I could easily relate to and whom I absolutely adore, loveable secondary characters and a male love interest who\u2019s just simply to die for. I don\u2019t know how she does it but Dessen\u2019s characters always feel so real to me and in my opinion TTAF has the best secondary characters of Re-read 2011 Okay so, I just had to do a re-read and oh my God do I love this book! Definitely my favorite by Dessen! For me, The Truth About Forever just has it all. An emotional and heartwarming story, a main character whom I could easily relate to and whom I absolutely adore, loveable secondary characters and a male love interest who\u2019s just simply to die for. I don\u2019t know how she does it but Dessen\u2019s characters always feel so real to me and in my opinion TTAF has the best secondary characters of all her books. I just love them all: Bert, Kristy, Monica, Delia, Caroline and how they all played their own significant little role in changing Macy\u2019s live. This book made me laugh (view spoiler) [.Didn't you just love how Macy quit her job at the library? :D (hide spoiler) ] , it made me tear up, it made me want to hug it to my chest and it made me swoon. God, I\u2019m head over heels in love with Wes. He\u2019s truly extraordinary. Just like the first time around I\u2019m at loss for words and just can\u2019t seem to come up with a decent explanation as to why I loved this book so much so I\u2019m going to end my review with some of my favorite quotes and let them speak for themselves. \u201cSome things don\u2019t last forever, but some things do. Like a good song, or a good book, or a good memory you can take out and unfold in your darkest times, pressing down on the corners and peering in close, hoping you still recognize the person you see there.\" It's not that I believe everything happens for a reason. It's just that...I just think that some things are meant to be broken. Imperfect. Chaotic. It's the universe's way of providing contrast, you know? There have to be a few holes in the road. It's how life is.\" \"It's all in the view. That's what I mean about forever, too. For any one of us our forever could end in an hour, or a hundred years from now. You never know for sure, so you'd better make every second count.\" \"What you have to decide... is how you want your life to be. If your forever was ending tomorrow, would this be how you'd want to have spent it? Listen, the truth is, nothing is guaranteed. You know that more than anybody. So dont be afraid. Be alive.\" ...more In typical Sarah Dessen \"one girl, one mysterious and awesome boy, one summer\" style, this book charts Macy Queen's summer as she and her family attempt to go through the grieving process after losing their father and she tries to figure out what makes her happy. On a whim, Macy starts working at a catering company and she meets a great cast of supporting characters there, including Wes--a sculpted, former juvenile delinquent who is also endearing, hot,a runner, an artist and DING DING DING, you In typical Sarah Dessen \"one girl, one mysterious and awesome boy, one summer\" style, this book charts Macy Queen's summer as she and her family attempt to go through the grieving process after losing their father and she tries to figure out what makes her happy. On a whim, Macy starts working at a catering company and she meets a great cast of supporting characters there, including Wes--a sculpted, former juvenile delinquent who is also endearing, hot,a runner, an artist and DING DING DING, you guessed it, the love interest in this story. Sometimes books are better because of the mood I'm in. (A statement of the obvious) A lot of people have written on GR that this is their favorite of Sarah Dessen's. I don't think it was mine but perhaps I am just partial to listening to audiobooks of her works. This is the first one I've read in DTB format and I missed hearing the voices. Sarah Dessen definitely knows how to pull on your heartstrings, though. At a few points in this story, I just felt awful for Macy and I was rooting for her (and her sister, Caroline) constantly. I teared up a few times, too, but maybe that is because I am annoyed that I can't read as much for the next month and a half while I study for an exam:-/ Anyway, Wes was adorable and I enjoyed his relationship with the secondary characters at the catering company, especially his brother, Bert. I just realized why I didn't enjoy this book as much as I could've/should've-->there wasn't enough closure. I know it isn't always realistic to wrap up every storyline and give every side character and story complete closure, but I felt like Dessen introduced several intriguing secondary characters/plots and then only wrapped up Macy's love life and (to a lesser extent) her family storyline. Maybe my expectations were just too high? ...more This book was so beautiful and heartfelt and beautiful and I can't even handle it!! It's a quiet, deep, tender and warm story about the main character dealing with grief, how that affected her life and how she's trying to hold it together for her family. It's about her self discovery and first love. I love how Sarah Dessen was able to showcase different ways of people dealing with grief and what their choices were. How important it is to have people in our lives who can bring something more out o This book was so beautiful and heartfelt and beautiful and I can't even handle it!! It's a quiet, deep, tender and warm story about the main character dealing with grief, how that affected her life and how she's trying to hold it together for her family. It's about her self discovery and first love. I love how Sarah Dessen was able to showcase different ways of people dealing with grief and what their choices were. How important it is to have people in our lives who can bring something more out of us. The family dynamic was messy and painful, but believable. The writing style, smooth and effortless. It slowly seeps you in, hooks you until the last page. I wish the ending would've been slightly more cohesive, but this book made me FEEL! Now, all I want to do is read more Sarah Dessen books! ...more So I've been thinking I should give Sarah Dessen another try for awhile now. It seems every other day people are extolling her virtues and it's not uncommon to hear Dessen referred to as the Queen of the contemporary YA. Quite the crown of laurels, really. Several years ago I picked up two Dessen books in a row-- This Lullaby and Someone Like You --I believe it was. I was unenthused. I read both through to the finish but remained distinctly underwhelmed and promptly forgot them. But it's hard to a So I've been thinking I should give Sarah Dessen another try for awhile now. It seems every other day people are extolling her virtues and it's not uncommon to hear Dessen referred to as the Queen of the contemporary YA. Quite the crown of laurels, really. Several years ago I picked up two Dessen books in a row-- This Lullaby and Someone Like You --I believe it was. I was unenthused. I read both through to the finish but remained distinctly underwhelmed and promptly forgot them. But it's hard to avoid Dessen's work over a long period of reading young adult novels and they always seemed like books I would really like. So after hearing a multitude of people hail THE TRUTH ABOUT FOREVER as their very favorite of her works, I decided it was high time to give her another shot. Macy strives for perfection. Or at the very least she strives to facilitate it in others. Namely her brainiac boyfriend (and I use the term loosely) Jason. Having lost her father a year or so ago, she and her mother live alone in their huge house making time by ignoring their grief and focusing on making every aspect of their individual lives \"perfect.\" Of course, everything is anything but. And when perfectly milquetoast Jason goes away for the summer, Macy promises to faithfully uphold his job at the local library as well as all their other clubs, cliques, and causes. But then the Wish Catering company invades Macy's home one night when her mother is entertaining prospective real estate clients. Led by extremely pregnant, extremely absentminded Delia, this motley crew soon worm their way into Macy's heart and she finds herself moonlighting as a caterer and, in the process, finds Wes. Who helps her realize there's more to life than frozen grief and insipid perfection. THE TRUTH ABOUT FOREVER started out well enough. I felt bad for Macy and the incredibly sad circumstances under which she lost her dad. I loved the idea of the crazy band of caterers operating in a chronic state of panic. I was definitely ready to find myself enamored of the kind and handsome Wes. But things just never went anywhere from there. I felt ready to feel those things the entire time without ever actually feeling them. Macy never morphed into a fully-fledged character for me. All of her emotions felt muted and mine followed suit. Though she was described as being torn between her relationship with Jason and her budding romance with Wes, she never really seemed to be. She and Wes spend hours and hours playing the truth game and divulging their innermost secrets to one another. And yet they didn't seem to forge a real, tangible connection. The kind of feelings that we're told were simmering on the surface never bubbled up. And the initially charming and quirky cast of characters slowly fade away into the lackluster background as the story goes on. What can I say? I didn't dislike the book. I just finished it feeling indifferent. Which I know is not the desired response. I feel like I've read books similar to this one done better, more dynamically--the writing, the characterization, the emotions, the whole thing. Jennifer Echols , Lisa Ann Sandell , Julia Hoban , and E. Lockhart come immediately to mind. And so I must conclude that I just don't possess the Sarah Dessen gene and leave it at that. It's a shame, but my reaction is definitely in the minority and thus the multitude of other reviews below. ...more I feel like this is going to be a huge love fest, but I will try to control myself. I LOVE this book! Ooops, failed already. :) I loved the world, all the characters, themes, and messages. Truth be told I loved it all. I\u2019m trying to come up with one criticism, but I just can\u2019t. The story revolves around Macy Queen, whose life has become routines, silence and \u201cfine-just-fine\u201d smiles, since the death of her father. Her life changes in a whirlwind of chaos, warmth, truths and meatballs after bumping I feel like this is going to be a huge love fest, but I will try to control myself. I LOVE this book! Ooops, failed already. :) I loved the world, all the characters, themes, and messages. Truth be told I loved it all. I\u2019m trying to come up with one criticism, but I just can\u2019t. The story revolves around Macy Queen, whose life has become routines, silence and \u201cfine-just-fine\u201d smiles, since the death of her father. Her life changes in a whirlwind of chaos, warmth, truths and meatballs after bumping into the Wish catering crew. Macy\u2019s life soon becomes divided into two completely different worlds. One filled with silence and safe discussion topics and one where she can talk, open up, and tell the truth about her loss, family, and just about anything and everything. Eventually though the two worlds have to collide. They always do in fiction and life. Wes. What can I say about Wes? ** Sigh**\u2026pretty much says it. Again, Sarah Dessen, you have written an \u201cextraordinary\u201d boy. Wes and Macy\u2019s Truth game sessions are some of my favorite parts of the book and the most emotional ones for me. The game went from emotional and healing to fun and flirty. It was a wonderful way for Wes and Macy to get to know each other. It was all the characters though that made this story work for me. Kristy\u2019s in-your-face, over the top show-it-all style, Bert\u2019s cologne, Delia\u2019s warmth, and Monica\u2019s hilarious expressions all brought another layer, laugh, and smile to the table. I could have stayed in these pages forever. It was a wonderful read that made me want to open up, leap, and run into life. ...more As much as I'm so very not a fan of this genre - especially now that highschool is a mercifully distant memory - this one never fails to delight. The Truth About Forever is slow-moving but perfectly crafted, never boring. The characters are so believable, honest, real, it's hard not to fall a little bit into their quiet little world. There is heartbreak, and resolutions that feel genuine and true to life. The fact that I'm probably actually the same age, if not older now as the older sister Carol As much as I'm so very not a fan of this genre - especially now that highschool is a mercifully distant memory - this one never fails to delight. The Truth About Forever is slow-moving but perfectly crafted, never boring. The characters are so believable, honest, real, it's hard not to fall a little bit into their quiet little world. There is heartbreak, and resolutions that feel genuine and true to life. The fact that I'm probably actually the same age, if not older now as the older sister Caroline is a little frightening but other than that I still love reading this, again and again. Plus it's a nice break from all that dystopian despair! ...more I feel like this book snuck up on me. I mean \u2013 I knew I was reading it, and I knew was enjoying it, but WOW! Usually when I talk about a slow build, I\u2019m referring to the romance (which does apply here,) but the emotion in this book was like water lapping gently at the shore, and then BAM! The tide came in \u2013 just like it did for Macy, and I was sobbing. Ever since her father passed away, Macy\u2019s been pretending everything\u2019s OK, and she\u2019s been busying herself trying to be perfect. Her boyfriend (unk I feel like this book snuck up on me. I mean \u2013 I knew I was reading it, and I knew was enjoying it, but WOW! Usually when I talk about a slow build, I\u2019m referring to the romance (which does apply here,) but the emotion in this book was like water lapping gently at the shore, and then BAM! The tide came in \u2013 just like it did for Macy, and I was sobbing. Ever since her father passed away, Macy\u2019s been pretending everything\u2019s OK, and she\u2019s been busying herself trying to be perfect. Her boyfriend (unknowingly) is a perfect enabler, as he is perfect at everything he does and accepts nothing less from Macy. It\u2019s not until he leaves for the summer and Macy stumbles upon a new job that she realizes she hasn\u2019t moved on from her loss. Her new job with a catering company is chaos, and Macy starts to see the beauty in imperfection. This author really knows how to do secondary characters. They\u2019re fleshed out enough so you feel you know them almost as much as the main character, but they never overwhelm the story. Macy\u2019s mother has come to expect the perfection her daughter is delivering, her older sister is concerned they aren\u2019t dealing with their patriarch\u2019s death, and the eclectic crew at the Wish the catering company were colorful to say the least. They were close knit and accepted each other just as they were, and it\u2019s no wonder Macy wanted to be part of the assemblage. It\u2019s Wes, with his art and quiet strength that intrigues her the most. I loved the evolution of their friendship, and the unique way they came to know each other. They formed such a strong bond, and had such respect for each other. And again, while their relationship was part of the story, it didn\u2019t overtake it. I just love the way Dessen\u2019s books revolve around so much more than girl/boy troubles. Pacing, as usual, was perfection. Nothing ever felt rushed or forced \u2013 from Macy and her family coming to terms with their emotions to Macy and Wes taking the next step. Everything happened at just the right time. Macy was a wonderful lead character, seizing opportunities even when it scared her. The Truth About Forever is my favorite Sarah Dessen from what I\u2019ve read so far. It was brimming with emotion, and I know it\u2019s a story that\u2019ll stay with me for a long time. If you\u2019re a fan of Young Adult and haven\u2019t read this one, it should be on your to be read list! Every time I read a new book from this author, it makes me even more excited for the next. Note about audio : When I listened to the sample of this one, I decided it wasn\u2019t for me because the sound was terrible. But when it actually became available from the library, I decided to give it another go. It wasn\u2019t nearly as muffled or echo-y, and I really enjoyed the narrator. I\u2019m not sure why they were so different. Just something to keep in mind if you sample the audio of this one. This review was originally posted at Badass Book Reviews. ...more There's a quiet beauty in the way Sarah Dessen writes, which I can admire, but at times--more often than not--it comes across lacking spark and excitement. That's to say: this was a very dull and boring read for me. This my second read novel of hers, and... I'm just not impressed. I really can't get over how starkly similar The Truth About Forever is to the novel I first read of hers, Saint Anything which was released earlier this year. While the plot does differ, the components, the characters There's a quiet beauty in the way Sarah Dessen writes, which I can admire, but at times--more often than not--it comes across lacking spark and excitement. That's to say: this was a very dull and boring read for me. This my second read novel of hers, and... I'm just not impressed. I really can't get over how starkly similar The Truth About Forever is to the novel I first read of hers, Saint Anything which was released earlier this year. While the plot does differ, the components, the characters and their issues, and the story line follows in the same pattern, and well... I don't like unintentionally reading the same novel twice. Here we have a rich girl whose always been straight-laced (good grades, never gets in trouble, always does what is told/expected), and she suffers a tragedy that changes the dynamics of her home life. She has a mom who is more of a dictator/warden in her life, who she's afraid to talk to and for that matter stand up to. Oh and she eventually falls for the guy who is \"below her class\", who she knows her mother wouldn't approve of. Let's not forget, she meets new--and eccentric--friends via the guy who gets her outside of her boxed up life, and her mom attributes her sudden changes to them, and thus prevents her from seeing them again. Sounds familiar? That's Saint Anything all over again. And the same problems/issues I had with the narration in that novel, was carried over in this one. Mary Sue Macy lacks personality and her narration is so dreadfully dull and tedious to read. Really, I couldn't connect with any of the characters, all of which lacked development and weren't layered enough to be believable. I find it hard to believe that this is a YA novel, because it so lacks the perspective of a teen/young adult. Okay, so I'm a newbie reader of Sarah Dessen and maybe this is just her writing style, her formula for writing books, which means maybe she's just not author for me. I do think her writing is quite beautiful at times (it's subtle and tranquil), but it is also filled with cliches and follows a predictable path that I'm just not a fan of. I didn't hate this book, but I didn't really enjoy it either. ...more", "Title": "The Truth About Forever"},
