{"Comments": "I was stunned.<---F> I was bored</---F>. I laughed. I sighed. I was disturbed. I was elated. I couldn't put it down. I dreaded having to pick it up. I chortled. I grunted. I embraced this tome's rogue's gallery. I was exasperated by them. I was moved. I was impatient. I was apprehensive. I was excited. I felt stirrings. I lengthened and shortened. I smiled. I frowned. I snorted. I rolled my eyes. I dug for nuggets. I backslid. I was propelled by its ebullience. I held my breath. I farted. I zoned right in. I I was stunned. I was bored. I laughed. I sighed. I was disturbed. I was elated. I couldn't put it down. I dreaded having to pick it up. I chortled. I grunted. I embraced this tome's rogue's gallery. I was exasperated by them. I was moved. I was impatient. I was apprehensive. I was excited. I felt stirrings. I lengthened and shortened. I smiled. I frowned. I snorted. I rolled my eyes. I dug for nuggets. I backslid. I was propelled by its ebullience. I held my breath. I farted. I zoned right in. I was fist-punched by history. I was rabbit-punched by melancholy. I consumed it by the light of day. I devoured it beneath the cold night glowering. It accompanied me to the bathroom. I marveled at the book's thickness. I inhaled its fragrant pages. I was bracketed by its sans-serif typography. I cradled it. I thumbed backwards and re-read at leisure. I was inspired. I book-dreamed. I was exhausted. I was entertained. I was impressed. Deeply impressed. All of this is to say that I loved <+++>Darkmans</+++> and I think Barker's one mightily talented glimmer gal. This phone directory of effervescent fiction is a bit of a stumper, no question about it. Eight hundred and thirty-eight entertaining and mostly brilliant pages under the belt and several days to chew the whole shebang over,<---M> and I still cannot ascertain</---M>, with any degree of certainty, what exactly transpired to a select crew of the denizens of Ashford, a coastal town in Kent that is linked to, and given new life by, the Channel Tunnel. Ashford is a curious and, at times, alienating mix of the thoroughly modern surrounding a medieval core, the transient and ephemeral laid to drape over a foundation much more rooted within the pregnant past of England's well-watered history. These denizens who comprise Barker's narrative core\u2014the estranged father and son pairing of Beede and Kane; Beede's demi-German friend Isidore and his bewitching chiropodist wife Elen (<---B>whom said father and son simultaneously pine for</---B>) together with their borderline autistic five-year old son, Fleet; Kane's newly acquired personal assistant Gaffar, a transplanted Turkish Kurd with claims to a most sanctified lineage; and Kane's teenage ex-girlfriend Kelly Broad, a chav's chav, along with various relations from her locally notorious family\u2014all appear to be afflicted by the baleful and mischievous spirit of one John Scogin, a rather errant and, at times, nasty individual who served as jester to the court of Edward IV back in the days of the War of the Roses. Scogin, the Darkman of the title, appears as a haunting presence with a proclivity for the invasion and possession of these intertwined individuals, who are all caught-up in their own intricately structured travails; but he also serves as a nominal representation of history, and the many ways that history, utterly permeated as it is within the physical world that surrounds us, has of overtaking us as we wend our way throughout daily life and springing all manner of unexpected, unwanted, and unpredictable traps. Several people have described <+++>Darkmans</+++> as being plotless, but that's inaccurate and unwarranted; the plot consists of the interlinked pathways that each of the characters wanders during the course of the story's unfolding, beginning with a chance meeting between the prescription drug-dealing Kane and his austerely efficient and modernity-antipathetic father, Beede (in personality not unlike the Venerable forebear whose name, less one e , he shares). The impish spirit of Scogin appears to be inhabiting the body of Isidore, who has become prone to memory lapses and odd behaviors; but, as the story progresses, secondary characters are introduced and/or whisked away, and these Ashfordites become more involved in the affairs of each other, their linkages with the past\u2014old guilts, grudges, betrayals, affairs, conquests, mistakes, and erroneous decisions\u2014show themselves to share a commonality that none, alone, would have ever anticipated. And each of them in their turn\u2014Elen, Fleet, Beede, Kane\u2014come to exhibit the signs of being possessed by this Scogin for reasons that are beyond their ken. So here's the skinny: I truly enjoyed Darkmans and all of the wonderful touches Barker provides throughout: effectively natural dialogue that parks the reader right within the conversational flow; absurd and comic antics abutting creepy and tense situations; splendid set-pieces that perfectly compliment each other, even when seeming superfluous to the story's progression; dips across time to flesh out personal histories; and the references to Scogin and his bounty of clever, but cruel, tricks and his connexions across the tenebrous strands of time with these twenty-first century inhabitants\u2014indeed, a microcosm of modern England offering a window into a corner of Kent that wonderfully captures the present with all of its quirks and contradictions. Barker cleverly allows room for differing interpretations of what each afflicted character is undergoing: is it possession by a mischievous, potentially malevolent ghost? Or is it perhaps a chemical reaction to widely spread prescription drugs? A shared hallucination? Eerie and intangible psychic linkages? Personal mental illness that flowers within a common genetic bed? Delusions given form and function by the suggestive powers of an artist's hand? Or is it History, in all of its juggernaut glory, crumbling individual lives like miniaturized bowling pins on its unending and unendable quest to resolve itself. I found it highly impressive how Barker tailored each possession to suit the invaded character's personality and past, and to display itself in a way that accommodated the future result each was (knowingly or not) setting themselves up, in both past and present actions, to realize. A book that undoubtedly will reward a second reading, Darkmans has left me hungry for more fiction from <---A>Nicola Barker</---A>. ...more I want to review Darkmans but I should be researching UK agents so I can submit my own novel to snotty Islington ministers\u2019 daughters\u2014the sort who fall down drooling at The Kite Runner or some such oxplop\u2014in the hope that one day I can write a tongue-in-cheek five-star review of my own novel on Goodreads then re-post a series of self-promoting updates every four minutes for everyone to ignore, then fight off a caustically withering slapdown from Mr. Bryant with four pages of unpunctuated vitriol I want to review Darkmans but I should be researching UK agents so I can submit my own novel to snotty Islington ministers\u2019 daughters\u2014the sort who fall down drooling at The Kite Runner or some such oxplop\u2014in the hope that one day I can write a tongue-in-cheek five-star review of my own novel on Goodreads then re-post a series of self-promoting updates every four minutes for everyone to ignore, then fight off a caustically withering slapdown from Mr. Bryant with four pages of unpunctuated vitriol, made worse by a pompous author shot of me, unshaven, in my James Joyce glasses, oozing hard-won wisdom. I wonder if Nicola Barker ever spends the afternoon writing a three-hundred word review for Goodreads under a pseudonym rather than delivering the next twelve pages of her latest opus to her publisher. I doubt it. See, this is my problem. I adore writing but I love reading more more more . Then I love sharing my passions on this worldwide book orgy. I flinch\u2014no, I wince , an appropriate word for this novel\u2014at writers who prefer writing to reading. These people are usually lawyers who decide to take up writing on the side, transcribing the minutiae of their cases for their mass market drivel, while earning \u00a326K getting a rapist off on a technicality. Where is this going? Nowhere. I have stuff to do. Needless to say, this book is her second masterpiece, next to Wide Open , which I still think (sorry deleted member Iain) is her best book. This one is compelling and witty, bursting with energy, comedy, heartbreak and mystery, but shows its flaws all too easily. The least nagging of these is an unhealthy use of the verb to wince \u2014the characters are wincing all over the place, why not blench, cringe, flinch, quail, recoil, or squinch, Nicola? Anyway, fabulous book. Chris\u2019s review and Drew\u2019s review are better. I\u2019m off to work, by which I mean linger on Goodreads for another hour. Curse this place! ...more A strange book, which can be funny, moving, thought-provoking \u2013 as well as frustrating. But then it is set in Ashford, which is all of those things and less. The plot is hard to summarise, although as a reader you'll probably be more preoccupied with unpicking the Byzantine web of connections which links the cast. The nearest thing to a central character is Kane, a layabout and amiable drug-dealer; he has a strained relationship with his father Beede, who works at the local hospital. Both of the A strange book, which can be funny, moving, thought-provoking \u2013 as well as frustrating. But then it is set in Ashford, which is all of those things and less. The plot is hard to summarise, although as a reader you'll probably be more preoccupied with unpicking the Byzantine web of connections which links the cast. The nearest thing to a central character is Kane, a layabout and amiable drug-dealer; he has a strained relationship with his father Beede, who works at the local hospital. Both of them are infatuated with a chiropodist called Elen, whose half-German husband Dory suffers from schizophrenic episodes during which he appears to be possessed by the spirit of a medieval jester. Their son, Fleet, has preternatural awareness and is building a fourteenth-century French cathedral out of matchsticks. A Kurdish immigrant, Gaffar, observes them all with sardonic weariness, and chats up Kelly, a sympathetic chavette who breaks her leg and finds God. I could go on, but my eyes are watering as it is. As an ensemble piece, it starts off something like a prose version of Magnolia . But there is more going on here, and considerably more weirdness than a froggy April shower. \u2018Darkmans\u2019 is archaic thieves' slang for \u2018night\u2019; but Barker (who never explains this) takes it as a name for the medieval jester mentioned above, whose shadowy presence lurks behind all the other characters, occasionally breaking through with sinister results. Something is being said, it seems, about how close to us our history is, lying unrecognised beneath the surface of the present. Ashford, in this context, makes the ideal setting. A lot has been said about Barker's use of language. Here too, the past is forever barging its way into the present, albeit in a way which I found somewhat trivial. Characters with trouble keeping their grip on reality are likely to slip accidentally into German, Latin or Middle French. The reminder that our language is a collection of fossils is crucial, but the tricks Barker uses to make the point have been pulled off more effectively by other writers. In other ways, too, I found the language disappointing, even slapdash. It's exhilarating to see such a crazy jumble of characters and plot points; but when the same principles are applied to sentences it too often comes over as just a poorly-controlled prose style. Her love of parenthetical asides can make her appealingly conversational, but after too many you end up with sentences that seem to be made of elbows. And Beede (who hadn't, quite frankly, really considered all of these lesser implications \u2013 Mid-Kent Water plc didn't run itself, after all) found himself involved (didn't he owe the condemned properties that much, at least?) in a crazy miasma of high-level negotiations, conservation plans, archaeological investigations and restoration schemes, in a last-ditch attempt to rectify the environmental devastation which (let's face it) he himself had partially engendered. A few sentences like this are quite fun; but a dozen per page is sometimes an effort. There are brackets here by the hundred. I also became a little frustrated by the way no one ever \u2018says\u2019 anything in this book. On one double page opened at random, I find: \u2018So you think I could do better?\u2019 he smiled\u2026 \u2018Why not?\u2019 she demanded\u2026 \u2018And it ain't only me as thinks so, neither,\u2019 she continued\u2026 \u2018Your poor old mum?! \u2019 he grinned. \u2018He's been schmoozing my mum , Kane,\u2019 Kelly exclaimed\u2026 \u2018Well he can't fancy her that much,\u2019 she sniffed\u2026 \u2018The ignorant fuck,\u2019 she scowled. \u2018He didn't shag her,\u2019 Kane repeated. \u2018God, no,\u2019 Kane muttered\u2026 \u2018Anyway,\u2019 Kane maintained\u2026 \u2018Her tits are amazing,\u2019 Kane added\u2026 (Feel free to read the preceding as a modernist poem.) You get the idea \u2013 though in fairness, there are a couple of \u2018said\u2019s in there too. Also needlessly erratic is the paragraph spacing, which appears to be entirely random \u2013 sometimes we get a whole new section halfway through a conversation. None of this disguises the fact that when the writing is held under control, Barker is impressive. Her treatment of characters' internal dialogue, for one thing, can achieve strange new effects. She often skips to a new line to give us the unedited thoughts of whoever she is describing, which form a colloquial counterpoint to the action. He glanced down \u2013 Damn The tip of his spliff had dropped off into his lap. And there was still a small \u2013 Fuck! \u2013 ember\u2026 He cuffed it from his jeans and down on to the floor. He checked the fabric \u2013 no hole, but a tiny, brown\u2026 Bugger He took a final, deep drag \u2013 Nope\u2026 Dead \u2013 then tried to push the damp dog-end into the ashtray, but the ashtray, it seemed, was already full to capacity. At times like this the text reminded me of a comic strip, in the way such \u2018thought bubbles\u2019 are pulled out of the narrative. It takes some getting used to, but she convinces you it's an effective tool. Part of the reason it seems so effective is that her characters are the book's greatest draw and its biggest reward. This becomes clear once you realise the plot's inexplicable but that you still loved the novel. Some of the throwaway jokes are excellent (Beede has \u2018a stare which could make an owl crave Optrex\u2019), and one scene detailing a horrendous middle-class dinner party is a comic tour-de-force. Like the mysterious Darkmans, Barker believes that humour can \u2018often be a direct route to power\u2019, and there is something serious at work behind the jokes \u2013 even if the ending leaves you unsure how it all technically came about. What you are likely to be more sure about is what an unusual and enjoyable way she has of asking the central question: if we can't understand our history, then how can we understand each other? Because despite the one-liners, the image that stayed with me was that of Kane and his father walking away from each other after another halting argument: They both turned. They both paused. They both took one measured step forward, then another; like a pair of old adversaries engaging in a duel, but without weapons, or seconds, or anybody to call. ...more Such a great cover, too. This is what Nicola Barker does. Here she's talking about what her character Elen does. She's a chiropodist.: On a good day she was a Superman or a Wonderwoman, doggedly fighting foot-crime and the causes of foot-crime (usually - when all was finally said and done - the ill-fitting shoe . . . Okay, so it was hardly The Riddler, or The Penguin, but in a serious head-to-head between a violent encounter with either one of these two comic-book baddies and an eight-hour, minimu Such a great cover, too. This is what Nicola Barker does. Here she's talking about what her character Elen does. She's a chiropodist.: On a good day she was a Superman or a Wonderwoman, doggedly fighting foot-crime and the causes of foot-crime (usually - when all was finally said and done - the ill-fitting shoe . . . Okay, so it was hardly The Riddler, or The Penguin, but in a serious head-to-head between a violent encounter with either one of these two comic-book baddies and an eight-hour, minimum-wage shift behind the bar of a 'happening' Ashford night-spot with a corn the size of a quail's egg throbbing away under the strappy section of your brand-new, knock-off Manolo Blahniks . . . Well . . . it'd be a pretty close call).Elen firmly believed that she was making a difference. She was nothing less than an evangelist for the foot. She was a passionate devotee. She worshipped at the altar of the arch and the heel. Sometimes it wasn't easy. The foot was hardly the most glamorous of the appendages ('yer dogs', 'yer plates', 'yer hoofs'). No one really gave a damn about it (although - fair's fair - the acupuncturists had done a certain amount for the cause, and the reflexologists had sexed things up a little, but in Elen's view, the short-fall still fell . . . well, pretty damn short). The foot had sloppy PR; it mouldered, uncomplainingly, down at the bottom (the fundus, the depths, the nadir) of the physiological hegemony. It had none of the pizzazz of the hand or the heart. The lips! The eyes (the eyes had it all their own way). Even the neck, the belly ... the arse. Even the arse had a certain cachet. But not the foot. The foot had none (the foot had Fergie, with her lover, sprawled on a deckchair, in the Cote du Tawdry). The foot lived in purdah - in cold climes particularly. It was hidden away, crammed inside, squeezed. Nicola Barker's middle name is ebullient. She hammers things into the ground, bulldozes, steamrollers, she overwhelms with a rich rash rush of verbiage, throws the kitchen sink in and the neighbour's - oh, now I'M doing it too! It's not that hard, evidently. The tone, as you see, is mildly humorous, almost mildly mocking, certainly not serious. Very occasionally she is funny, as opposed to mildly humorous. This book is so mild and desperate for a cuddle. So by page 200 she's invented a small cast of mildly caricatured oddballs set in the present day (they buy books over the internet and everything) and bathed them all in an unstoppable torrential gush of slightly, occasionally humorous commentary. Also, I have been peering through a powerful book-telescope but I have yet to distinguish anything which appears to be a plot, a story, a narrative, although a couple of Last Mimzy kids have now hoved into view so maybe it will turn into some kind of tepidly funny science fiction which is the very kind of science fiction I can't say I'm much of a fan of. Still, I'll give it another 200 pages. One week later No, I won't, and my week-ago self can't make me by jumping into a time machine and appearing in front of me with a haughty sneer. Nicola Barker finally made me give up by writing a 10 page skit about a dodgy builder which was as deeply unfunny as British comedy unfortunately frequently can be. It was dire, it was obvious, it was as lame as a three legged dog. So, in the words of many Samuel Beckett characters, I can't go on. ...more Anytime I see a book this size I think: \"What was that you had to say that you needed more than 800 pages to do it?\". And I am intrigued, because, surely, it must be something magnificent to justify the magnificent size. On the other hand I know that I suffer from severe obsessive-compulsive disorder and if I started this book I would just have to finish it no matter what. There is a possibility it could be 800 pages of blabbering, or worse yet, 800 pages of impenetrable ontological debates. Luck Anytime I see a book this size I think: \"What was that you had to say that you needed more than 800 pages to do it?\". And I am intrigued, because, surely, it must be something magnificent to justify the magnificent size. On the other hand I know that I suffer from severe obsessive-compulsive disorder and if I started this book I would just have to finish it no matter what. There is a possibility it could be 800 pages of blabbering, or worse yet, 800 pages of impenetrable ontological debates. Luckily, you can just skate through 'Darkmans' and it is not all total blabbering, Paul! I suppose I should tell you what it is actually about, although explaining it will not be easy. 'Darkmans' is about a group of characters living in Ashford, including some chavs, hospital employees, construction workers, drug dealers... basically, the sort of group that many British writers who set their books in small drab English towns write about. Now, the twist here is that all these characters (with the special mention of Isidore, German security guard) seem to be invaded by a ghost of Middle Ages in the form of John Scogin, wicked medieval jester. He muddles their minds, gets them confused, and makes them speak pre-Shakespeare English. The scope of this book is impressive; the research, the linguistic finesse is quite something. Of course, you will be tempted to hope that everything will neatly come together in the end but it is a foolish hope. As one of the character says (and I can't give you the exact quote, because stupidly I have returned the book to the library - it was about 5 years overdue) we fool ourselves to believe that things happen for a reason, that there is some sort of grand design behind it all. No, only in art, apparently. Now, whether this book calls itself art or whether it tries to imitate real life is for you to decide. That is not to say, that it leaves nothing but loose ends. It is indeed very clever. In the end, it's Barker's book and you have to play by her rules. If you are ok with that, you are rewarded with a brilliant, epic read. Someone said 'unhinged'. Yes but in the best possible sense. And as promised: Paul knows nada about real literature. He is a philistine. This book kicks ass. ...more This is going to sound strange, because I imagine most people would think the opposite, but I think if Darkmans were 500 pages shorter (aka the length of a normal book), I would very likely have hated it. The style is maddening in several ways: 1) Barker has a tendency to over-italicize. I know this because I worry that I italicize too much, and if someone else's italics are bothering me, it must be a serious problem. I'm not kidding; Darkmans is like that old newspaper comic Brenda Starr*, where This is going to sound strange, because I imagine most people would think the opposite, but I think if Darkmans were 500 pages shorter (aka the length of a normal book), I would very likely have hated it. The style is maddening in several ways: 1) Barker has a tendency to over-italicize. I know this because I worry that I italicize too much, and if someone else's italics are bothering me, it must be a serious problem. I'm not kidding; Darkmans is like that old newspaper comic Brenda Starr*, where every emphasis gets bolded (\"Rex, I'm surprised you're home so early! \"). It's as if Barker thinks the reader doesn't understand where people place their emphases when they're talking out loud, and needs to be taught. 2) Also, she's crazy about parentheses. And again, I probably use parentheses too much (this review's probably not a great example since, aside from this one, I'm making a conscious effort to avoid them), so it's not a good sign that I'm saying she uses too many. Every other sentence has some snide little parenthetical aside; I think they're supposed to be funny, but they're usually not, so they seem pretty pointless. And she's never tempted to get fancy with them, e.g. triple nested parentheses that all end at the same time, so you get one of these ))). Which could be either good or bad, depending on who you are. 3) There's also this thing she does that I read described as sort of an alter ego for the narrator, or an alternate narrator - she leaves a couple lines blank and then there's just a word or phrase in italics. It's hard to explain, so here's an example: She glanced over towards the play area in the corner of the classroom where Fleet** was currently sitting and boredly constructing a small, neat structure - A fort, was it? - out of plastic bricks. The way it reads, though, it's less a groundbreaking narrative technique and more stream-of-consciousness narration broken up by carriage returns for...what reason, exactly? I like to picture Barker's editor saying, \"You know, we could probably take all these blank lines out and knock this sucker down to the next, more affordable, price bracket without losing any actual substance.\" To which Barker apparently says, \"No. It's essential that the blank lines stay where they are .\" Other minor gripes include the fact that Barker's changed the rules of attraction for no reason; Kane, the charming, good-looking narrator who's at or near the center of the story, ignores the only girl who's actually described as pretty, in favor of being \"strangely attracted\" to two women who seem to be well into middle age. Wishful thinking? Maybe. Also the fact that the book's incomprehensibility is in direct proportion to the presence of anything interesting. It's compulsively readable when nothing's happening, but as soon as the plot starts to advance, it contrives Ulyssean levels of confusion. Maybe this is because the main plot hook is a spirit from the past, whose motives are uncertain but probably malicious, coming to possess some of the main characters and cause what basically amounts to minor mayhem. So what is the point, then? I have no idea. That's my last minor gripe. But here's why the book's length works. When you run into an annoying stranger in a bar, every moment of the encounter is painful, and when you finally extricate yourself, your main memory of the incident is how bad it was. But when you have an annoying roommate, things always work out differently. Yeah, maybe it sucks most of the time, but you appreciate the good bits more; if Annoying Roommate makes a surprisingly good joke, it's that much funnier just for coming from him. And when he finally moves out, you sort of start to miss him. Or at least I do. And this is how it went with Barker's characters. For the first 200 or so pages, I was not psyched about finishing the book, although I rarely give up on one. But then they started to grow on me, much like the chronic verruca on Kane's foot. I started to care about what ended up happening to them, although (view spoiler) [most of them end up just find and in roughly the same condition as they started the novel. (hide spoiler) ] This managed to make the rest of the book enjoyable. Not great, but enjoyable. Ultimately, four stars for ambition, three for execution. And I round up because I'm a nice guy. *Why is it that American newspaper comic strips are so relentlessly unfunny? Maybe this is just because I grew up with the Democrat & Chronicle, but the only remotely amusing comic we had was Dilbert. I was probably 14 or 15 before I figured out that there were good comics besides Calvin and Hobbes and The Far Side. **[sic] ...more Wtf...seriously, wtf did I just read? That surely was the strangest book I've ever read. It took a while to get into it...I probably wouldn't have kept reading if this weren't a selection for my book club. About halfway through I finally started enjoying it. There were a few parts that were so funny I actually laughed out loud. The writing style is unusual. It was sometimes a bit annoying, but for the most part it worked. An unfortunate side effect is that now I occasionally find myself thinking Wtf...seriously, wtf did I just read? That surely was the strangest book I've ever read. It took a while to get into it...I probably wouldn't have kept reading if this weren't a selection for my book club. About halfway through I finally started enjoying it. There were a few parts that were so funny I actually laughed out loud. The writing style is unusual. It was sometimes a bit annoying, but for the most part it worked. An unfortunate side effect is that now I occasionally find myself thinking thoughts in italics (ha!). There's quite an impressive vocabulary here...lots of SAT words. I don't know if Stephen King would approve, though, because he said good writing avoids adverbs, and this book is overflowing with them. Much of the book is confusing, confounding, perplexing. So many characters and interconnected relationships. Who is good and who is bad? It seems nebulous. There are countless peculiar supernatural occurrences. The niggling question in my mind as I read was constantly \"Wtf??\" This book is not tied up in a neat little package...so many questions are left unanswered. The ending left me hanging. I'm looking forward to discussing this with my book club to see what they make of it. ...more What a wonderful book with which to begin the new year. \"Darkmans\" has been on my radar ever since the book's cover caught my eye four years ago (that tongue-wagging devil is creepy). The book's heft and weirdness intimidated me at first, and I filed it away in my mind as a \"get to when it's time\" book. This year, it was time--and what a time I had with this book! The story, though small in actual scale, is peppered with so many warrens and boltholes and caches that captured me without warning an What a wonderful book with which to begin the new year. \"Darkmans\" has been on my radar ever since the book's cover caught my eye four years ago (that tongue-wagging devil is creepy). The book's heft and weirdness intimidated me at first, and I filed it away in my mind as a \"get to when it's time\" book. This year, it was time--and what a time I had with this book! The story, though small in actual scale, is peppered with so many warrens and boltholes and caches that captured me without warning and pulled me into musings and conversations about history, language, love, memory, identity, lies, and the subjective nature of consciousness. I love fiction that peddles huge ideas amidst juggling the demands of the story, and Barker's novel fits this bill to a \"T\". A standout in this novel is the way Barker highlights the subjectivity of the human experience through conflicting character perspectives. Many times throughout this novel, two characters discussing a similar event end up confusing one another in their differing accounts; sometimes they fess up to this muddle and share the subsequent frustration, leading to another intriguing conversation; and other times one or both characters cover up this confusions with obfuscation and tangential talk, which in turn adds yet another yet another issue to a growing pile of them. These frequent disconnects were at times funny (Gaffar and Beede in the supermarket--choice!) and at times quite sad (Elen's family outing is a terribly-apt example of a family trying to stick together while things go to shit). Another gem in this novel is Gaffar, a Kurdish man who speaks limited English. When conversing with people in English, his dialog is written in normal text; when he speaks in Turkish, his dialog is written in bold type. Through this device, Barker demonstrates how difficult it is for an otherwise eloquent person to express themselves in a secondary language. The result is both comedic and insightful: Gaffar has cutting observations about the things that go on around him, yet most people view him as a simple-minded being, leading them to underestimate his understanding of what's going on. Again, the supermarket scene comes to mind for its brilliant comedy and word play. This is a big book, and Barker tells her story well. I do wish that some of the characters had not stepped out of the story in the last third, such as Fleet (what about his crazy building projects?) and Gaffar (will he always suffer from salad-phobia?). I was also surprised by the increasing distance between the narrative and Elen's perspective; though she starts out as a viewpoint character who's thoughts contribute to the story, she later becomes more of a symbol of attraction for Beede and his son, Kane. Given how much she suffers in the middle of the story, I figured that she, too, might find some kind of resolution at the end. This is one of those books that wrapped me up in its story and deposited a few ideas that will stick with me for a long time. I am so glad that I finally picked this up and gave Barker's work a go, and I have no doubt that I will read some of her other novels (in fact, Goodreads just informed me that this book is third in a \"Thames Gateway\" sequence of thematically-related books; methinks I need to go to the beginning!). ...more Darkmans is funny and interesting, though it doesn't become either until almost 300 pages into the 800+ page story. Barker's style of writing (which gives the grammar lover in me nightmares), is tough to follow until she tones it down a little and really lets the narrative take over. At that point, I was able to stop lamenting all the commas that could have been and start really paying attention to the story. When I finished the book, though, I sat back and thought, \"Hmm. Didn't know how to tie t Darkmans is funny and interesting, though it doesn't become either until almost 300 pages into the 800+ page story. Barker's style of writing (which gives the grammar lover in me nightmares), is tough to follow until she tones it down a little and really lets the narrative take over. At that point, I was able to stop lamenting all the commas that could have been and start really paying attention to the story. When I finished the book, though, I sat back and thought, \"Hmm. Didn't know how to tie that all up neatly, huh?\" I'm all for having to think and work for it, but in this case, I just thought that Barker didn't fully develop the idea of the \"Darkmans.\" The characters' stories are all interwoven nicely, though I really feel like Barker just got tired at the end, said, \"Well, that's 800 pages. I'm done,\" and sort of slapped together an ending. I did enjoy \"Darkmans,\" but it was an effort. ...more Is there a first time for everything? This is the first time I've ever given up on a book halfway through. At first I thought she was being quirky and setting the scene, but I read up to page 405 and nothing had happened yet, the characters were neither interesting nor likeable, and her style of writing is unbelievably irritating - with sentences half-written, full of utterly meaningless interjections like \"huh?\", \"eh?\" \"what?\", \" what? \", \"but...\", \"right...\", \"No!\", \"NO!!\", and repeating everyth Is there a first time for everything? This is the first time I've ever given up on a book halfway through. At first I thought she was being quirky and setting the scene, but I read up to page 405 and nothing had happened yet, the characters were neither interesting nor likeable, and her style of writing is unbelievably irritating - with sentences half-written, full of utterly meaningless interjections like \"huh?\", \"eh?\" \"what?\", \" what? \", \"but...\", \"right...\", \"No!\", \"NO!!\", and repeating everything that is said in the form of a question. A Joker? The joke is on us. Nicola Barker is probably laughing her ass off at home looking at good reviews from people who read her brain vomit. ...more It's about as challenging to describe Nicola Barker's writing style as it is to read it but picture Thomas Pynchon's twisty and chaotic words with an unreliable narrator in terms of depicting the true reality of every moment crossed with a bit of Flannery O'Connor and you'll have something close. Her vocabulary in and of itself is like a dense road to travel on but it's filled with some glorious wit and cultural references too, for those of us who enjoy sightseeing. I don't use this term lightly It's about as challenging to describe Nicola Barker's writing style as it is to read it but picture Thomas Pynchon's twisty and chaotic words with an unreliable narrator in terms of depicting the true reality of every moment crossed with a bit of Flannery O'Connor and you'll have something close. Her vocabulary in and of itself is like a dense road to travel on but it's filled with some glorious wit and cultural references too, for those of us who enjoy sightseeing. I don't use this term lightly but Ms. Nicola Barker is brilliant and that's something you pick up from the first thrusts of this ambition novel. This is a work of postmodern fiction that brings this genre to a pinnacle and simultaneously to it's knees. It's unfaltering and awe inspiring and perhaps the most inventive novel I've read all year. This one will leave you gasping to keep up and gaping at each new chapter. And truly, I haven't seen characters this vivid since Trainspotting..this is very different in terms of subject matter but the sense of these people really and truly alive is unmistakable. This novel is a little bit about the relationship of a father and son as well as between a wife and a husband and their son who seems to definitely be on the Autism spectrum but seems centered mainly on delusions and how they affect everyone and everything. Of course, the reader must suffer to decipher through these delusions too and figure out what really is happening. Barker doesn't always spell things out. That would be way too easy on her readers and she clearly expects much more from us. This is set in postmodern England but it draws from many different time periods in terms of the breadth of it's references. Decipher Barker's true meaning in all it's ways and you might hold the key to the entire universe. Either way, take a glorious stab at it. Even if you don't succeed, you'll be stronger for your journey. Some quotes: pg. 174 \"He already had a well-documented genius for circumnavigation.\" pg. 356 \"'A man needs a maid.\"Kane automatically quoted Neil Young. 'Just someone to keep his house clean, fix his meals and go away.\" she quoted back 'Marry me!' Kane exclaimed. pg. 773 \"'Is it because of my line of work? Kane demanded, paranoid. 'Is it because I'm a dealer?'...'Does that just make you automatically assume,'Kane continued, furious, 'that I'm the kind of person who thinks pretty much anything can be bought and sold?'\" pg. 824 \"The *truth*,\" Peta informed him, baldly, 'is just a series of disparate ideas which briefly congeal and then slowly fall apart again...The truth is that there is no truth. Life is just a series of coincidences, accidents and random urges which we carefully forge for our own, sick reasons-into a convenient design. Everything is arbitrary. Only art exists to make the arbitrary congeal. Not memory or God or love, even. Only art. The truth is simply an idea, a structure which we employ-in very small doses-to render life bearable. It's just a convenient mechanism.\" pg. 825 \"You were telling yourself a story. You were weaving a spell. You were making all the parts fit. You were feeding into a general energy, a universal energy. You were probably adhering to a basic archetype a 'first model' as the Ancient Greeks would have it-something like he's threatened by his father, he loved his mother, he's terrified of death...or maybe something more intellectual, more esoteric like...I don't know..like the idea of this disparity between fire and water. She pulled a moronic face, 'Or the absurd idea that language has these *gaps* in it and that lives can somehow just tumble through.\" ...more Unbelievably bad. Unreadably bad. At first I thought it had the same problem as Stephen King's IT, that the story was in there somewhere but I couldn't find it, but worse, there's seriously no story. So irritatingly written. Each page peppered with italics and -ings and -lys and parentheses of spurious details and weird Germanic bold text (not used for any apparently different reason from all those italics) and telling-over-showing and crazy speech tags followed by lengthy adverbial phrases and Unbelievably bad. Unreadably bad. At first I thought it had the same problem as Stephen King's IT, that the story was in there somewhere but I couldn't find it, but worse, there's seriously no story. So irritatingly written. Each page peppered with italics and -ings and -lys and parentheses of spurious details and weird Germanic bold text (not used for any apparently different reason from all those italics) and telling-over-showing and crazy speech tags followed by lengthy adverbial phrases and digressive never-to-revisit-or-use backstories. About one thing happens per 2 pages, and most of the time it already happened, and it's as exciting as learning the name of a dog (will this 2 pager dog return even?) in the case of a whole 160 or so pages, learning the name of the guy who got off the horse outside the cafe of the main characters (right?) in chapter 1, which was so great a reveal that we went on to book the second! The language is trying so hard to entertain, but I've heard these jokes before and so have you, and one non-extended unmixed metaphor per character motion or thought etc would, well, probably still be too much for me to follow. Barker, having written so many novels (none I feel like trying) must must must know how bad these errors are, right? She's doing it on purpose? Why? Is that the point? I seriously, amicably, don't understand, don't get, don't comprehend, how anyone finished joyfully, ended happily, completed endearingfully, this! It's not like it's too very dense or intellectual or, or... Or like, or... or anything, it's just like per se totally empty spurious spurious! So bad. So bad that I actually have nothing on me to read and I still don't wanna read it! It hurts, Nicola! NICOLAAAAAAAAAAA!! ...more Characters you won't forget, especially Kelly. Contemporary English language and life that's crazy but very real. Shades of John Irving and nonviolent Stephen King. Off kilter but genuine. It's funny and wild and fun. The strangeness increases toward the end and the title leads you to think there'll be some kind of otherworldly or ancient answer to it all. But Nicola Barkman wrapped it all up for me the way I wanted her to with Peta's speech: \"The truth is just a series of disparate ideas which Characters you won't forget, especially Kelly. Contemporary English language and life that's crazy but very real. Shades of John Irving and nonviolent Stephen King. Off kilter but genuine. It's funny and wild and fun. The strangeness increases toward the end and the title leads you to think there'll be some kind of otherworldly or ancient answer to it all. But Nicola Barkman wrapped it all up for me the way I wanted her to with Peta's speech: \"The truth is just a series of disparate ideas which briefly congeal and then slowly fall apart again.... The truth is that there is no truth. Life is just a series of coincidences, accidents and random urges which we carefully forge into a convenient design. Everything is arbitrary. Only art exists to make the arbitrary congeal. Not memory of God or love, even. Only art. The truth is simply an idea, a structure which we employ in very small doses - to render life bearable. It's just a convenient mechanism, that's all.\" Take the journey and enjoy the ride - it's great. ...more I read this through once, then immediately started over. It's the sort of book that takes a couple of readings to see its shape--like that low-budget sci-fi film Primer. I think Nicola Barker is one of the best contemporary writers--not least because she challenges herself with each book. This is nothing like her previous novels, but it is equally brilliant. Reading a Nicola Barker book is the closest thing I can imagine to being Alice, and falling down the rabbit hole. Her stories are unlike anything I've ever read before and I've collected everything she has ever written. Currently I'm reading Wide Open and it does not disappoint. Take a neat little story, add a ton of strange and interesting characters and the occasional \"out of the blue\" creepy critter. Throw all the bits in the air and then read them where they land. In the hands and mind of any Reading a Nicola Barker book is the closest thing I can imagine to being Alice, and falling down the rabbit hole. Her stories are unlike anything I've ever read before and I've collected everything she has ever written. Currently I'm reading Wide Open and it does not disappoint. Take a neat little story, add a ton of strange and interesting characters and the occasional \"out of the blue\" creepy critter. Throw all the bits in the air and then read them where they land. In the hands and mind of anyone else, chances are we'd simply chuck the book in the trash and say, \"what on earth was THAT all about!\" but Nicola is magic, she's a wizard, she casts a spell on many of her readers, her fans. The woman has incredible bloody talent! I find myself reading along and thinking, \"where the hell is this taking me! God I LOVE this book! I just LOVE it! This is so strange! But it's so Good!\" I have very little patience for strange just for the sake of trying to be strange or for effect. Or strange just to be different or as a marketing tool. That kind of oddity usually does end up in my trash bin. But, whatever Nicola does in her writing, however she manages it, I believe in the insane world she creates, the characters she invents. I believe, and I love, and I care about them. Sometimes as I read, I laugh my head off! She can be so very funny! Sometimes my heart twists with sadness or sympathy, so deep. What I wouldn't give to sit down and chat with Ms. Barker! She is a genius but my God she is odd...she has to be to think this all up! I should really say her imagination is odd. :-) She and her books fascinate me. I will read absolutely anything this woman writes. She is like no other. Words of advise; read slowly, read over bits you don't quite manage to make fit. Enjoy the emotions the book evokes and try not to spend a great deal of time thinking WTF! Instead, let go, pretend you are on safari in Barker world and just let her take you where she will. It's actually a supreme act of control to actually let go of control and your expectations on what a story should be and exactly how it should all work and fit together. Barker's books are about the journey...I'm not entirely sure they have a destination! Enjoy the ride! Btw, If you enjoy Nicola Barker's work, I highly recommend another wonderful author by the name of Leon Rooke. Especially a book he wrote called A Good Baby! Darkman is one of my all time favourite books and the more Nicola writes, the happier a reader I will be. Enjoy! ...more Were it not hyperbolic to say so, I would call this the best book I've ever read. It sounds ridiculous even qualified like that. A father and son, Beede and Kane, are the center of the book; they live in the town on the English side of the Chunnel. Beede manages a hospital laundry but is also fascinated by jesters of the middle ages and gets around on an ancient motorcycle. Kane deals prescription painkillers and antidepressants to what seems like most of the women in the town. They are both in l Were it not hyperbolic to say so, I would call this the best book I've ever read. It sounds ridiculous even qualified like that. A father and son, Beede and Kane, are the center of the book; they live in the town on the English side of the Chunnel. Beede manages a hospital laundry but is also fascinated by jesters of the middle ages and gets around on an ancient motorcycle. Kane deals prescription painkillers and antidepressants to what seems like most of the women in the town. They are both in love with the same woman, a witchy podiatrist. These details are already enough to made it a remarkable book, particularly in that it is dead on in its modernity. And I mean when do books ever focus on characters like these? Though it looks like a long book, it's mostly a trick of the typography. On the other hand, I found it so dense that I read only a little at a time. The plot is a strange hybrid of Bible and riddle. There are incredible details, for instance that Beede has in his bedroom a series of boxes which hold labeled and dated everyday objects: a coffee cup that says something like \"World's Best Fisherman\" and one that is the bed for a cat, labeled \"Chairman Mao, Siamese, 3 years old, called 'Manny'.\" This makes it a little like Remainder by Tom McCarthy. In fact these two books, although they are quite fantastical, portray the present more accurately than anything else I've read. ...more This a 'killing book'... just like Paul Atreides in Dune had a killing name, well this is the literary equivalent. It is 838 pages long and in the hands of a trained reader could be used as a tool of assassination. Apart from it's major length it is a work of sufficient scale to allow me to say it is a book with a breadth of scope and imagination that many books will never approach. This a modern book (set in present dayish Kent, England) but it has strains of mediaeval England and micro scale h This a 'killing book'... just like Paul Atreides in Dune had a killing name, well this is the literary equivalent. It is 838 pages long and in the hands of a trained reader could be used as a tool of assassination. Apart from it's major length it is a work of sufficient scale to allow me to say it is a book with a breadth of scope and imagination that many books will never approach. This a modern book (set in present dayish Kent, England) but it has strains of mediaeval England and micro scale history from that period which permeate the book and it's characters throughout. Nicola Barker obviously has considerable talent as a writer and that shows through the book but I did at points feel as if I was reading a thesaurus and her penchant for having her characters repeatedly either mishear or misunderstand words was irritating. The book made me laugh at points but the reason I only give it a 3 star rating is that the ending was rather unsatisfying for me, others may not feel this way and no spoilers to be found here. I picked it up second hand am glad that I read it - I may seek out her previous books as this is the third and end of a loosely linked trilogy based around the Thames Estuary. Meanwhile I will put into my killing book collection, next to Neal Stephenson's Anathaem.... ...more This was a shot in the dark I took, never having heard of the book or the author, and I scored. The writing of this book isn't the kind of thing I usually go for, stream of consciousness, sound effects, etc., and there were way more pop culture references than I normally tolerate, but in the end, this book reminds me of a really simplified Thomas Pynchon, meant as a compliment. I knew by about page 5 or 6 hundred that when the book ended at page 838 I wasn't going to understand everything that w This was a shot in the dark I took, never having heard of the book or the author, and I scored. The writing of this book isn't the kind of thing I usually go for, stream of consciousness, sound effects, etc., and there were way more pop culture references than I normally tolerate, but in the end, this book reminds me of a really simplified Thomas Pynchon, meant as a compliment. I knew by about page 5 or 6 hundred that when the book ended at page 838 I wasn't going to understand everything that was happening. Basically I must assume everyone in the book goes insane from time to time, and one character is insane most of the time (Dory), and people can imagine things and make them form in the real world. This last part was kind of strange because in the horror novel I read just before this book the same thing happened. This was the first book I've read by Nicola Barker, and I think she's very funny and talented. I think I'll read more books by her if they pop up. ...more This was an intriguing but ultimately baffling book. A small group of disparate but interconnected people in a small town in England all seem, to varying degrees, to be obsessed or even possessed by the medieval past, and in particular a jester named John Scogin (presumably the \"Darkmans\" of the title). This part of the book is puzzling and spooky/weird and even unnecessary, as these folks are interesting enough without the supernatural/psychological weirdness. It took a while to get used to the This was an intriguing but ultimately baffling book. A small group of disparate but interconnected people in a small town in England all seem, to varying degrees, to be obsessed or even possessed by the medieval past, and in particular a jester named John Scogin (presumably the \"Darkmans\" of the title). This part of the book is puzzling and spooky/weird and even unnecessary, as these folks are interesting enough without the supernatural/psychological weirdness. It took a while to get used to the style of the book, in which thoughts (which usually consist of \"uh..\", \"huh?\", \"f**k!\" and so on) are set apart in italics from the main action. I remained somewhat annoyed by this throughout the book. Otherwise, this was an often hilarious and compelling read - although the ending, while not exactly anticlimactic, left many unanswered questions. ...more I'm 100 pages in and struggling. Nothing's coming together for me yet. Hopefully it won't ramble for the remaining 738 pages. 350 pages in and enjoying MUCH more. Very funny book. Whew!! What a ride. This book reminded me very much of a Tarantino movie in that some of the situations are absolutely off the wall (the pillory scene, for example), it's fast-paced and you just have to go with it. I'm sure there are many levels on which you could take this book and it would take another couple of reads I'm 100 pages in and struggling. Nothing's coming together for me yet. Hopefully it won't ramble for the remaining 738 pages. 350 pages in and enjoying MUCH more. Very funny book. Whew!! What a ride. This book reminded me very much of a Tarantino movie in that some of the situations are absolutely off the wall (the pillory scene, for example), it's fast-paced and you just have to go with it. I'm sure there are many levels on which you could take this book and it would take another couple of reads to completely digest (which I am not prepared to do at this moment), but at the surface, it is very funny and entertaining. ...more I think that every book that both Josie and I both give five stars to should go in a special list of guaranteed crowd pleasers. The juxtaposition of this thoroughly modern setting and the force of history bubbling underneath it was fantastic. This was not an enjoyable experience. I am sure that it is a very clever book and that the style was innovative, or something, but as a reader I found it curiously lacking in appeal. I truly hated this book and could not force myself to finish it although I was at the beach with no convenient way to find something else to read. I am perplexed that anyone could have enjoyed this. What really surprised me when I finished this book is the lack of emotion I felt. I've read books where I've been elated at the ending, or in tears as the last page turns, or even angry for whatever reason, but with this, the best I could muster was an overwhelming sense of time wasted on something that could have been so much better, with so much potential, but just didn't really pull together in the end. As a fiction writer myself, I appreciate hard work when I see it and there is no question What really surprised me when I finished this book is the lack of emotion I felt. I've read books where I've been elated at the ending, or in tears as the last page turns, or even angry for whatever reason, but with this, the best I could muster was an overwhelming sense of time wasted on something that could have been so much better, with so much potential, but just didn't really pull together in the end. As a fiction writer myself, I appreciate hard work when I see it and there is no question Nicola Barker has talent and good ideas. Her characters work well and the opening section of the book is excellent, as are many of the central passages, like the section in the hospital, which I enjoyed, but somewhere, someone let this book go to print with half the editing undone. I'm reluctant to blame the author for everything that's wrong with a traditionally published work, because so many of the choices made with those books are by people other than the original writer, but someone has made an error of judgement here. I'm usually very tolerant of any art. If an artist or writer wants to write something, who am I to judge? But purely from a reader's perspective, the ending of this book, and in reality, most of the plot, was confused, overly complex and deeply dissatisfying. The quotes on the back cover make the length of the book sound like an advantage; it's not. It's far too long and, worst of all, the ending is an anticlimax. When a reader invests their time and money in a book this size, no matter how hard it is, the author or editor or someone in the publishing process needs to think of that reader, step in and say enough is enough. It's time to press, horror of horrors, the delete button. It's rare for me to accuse any writer of style over substance, but here I do feel justified. I've read some weird books, with lots of quirks and I like writers who push the boundaries, as long as there's a method or motive to their madness. I've seen a hundred reviewers criticising the style of Darkmans; overuse of italics, bold, stray fragments of text and I can only agree that it's artistic license gone too far. A writer who's different doesn't need to try this hard to prove they're different. It ends up distracting from the story, it alienates the reader, and above all, it just seems pointless. Ahhh, oooh, urgh, ugh, blah, blurgh, are not creative and clever when you've used them page after page in an endless stream of nothingness. Even after this review, I would try another book by the same author, because I think she can write, but let's hope the next one I open isn't as pretentious in style and marred by the same development mistakes. ...more When the Booker Prize longlist came out I ordered a couple of the 13 books from the library. I didn't really look very deeply into the details of the books, in fact I pretty much ordered them blind hoping that being on the longlist would be enough to give me something interesting to read. I didn't bargain on the first book that turned up being an over 800 page doorstep. (No, not a doorstop, I do think you could use this as a doorstep!) My first impressions weren't great and I struggled through par When the Booker Prize longlist came out I ordered a couple of the 13 books from the library. I didn't really look very deeply into the details of the books, in fact I pretty much ordered them blind hoping that being on the longlist would be enough to give me something interesting to read. I didn't bargain on the first book that turned up being an over 800 page doorstep. (No, not a doorstop, I do think you could use this as a doorstep!) My first impressions weren't great and I struggled through part one not really having any clear idea of the characters or the story that was being told. The structure changed in part two and we stayed with a single character for longer and found out more about them and I began to enjoy the book more even after the structure changed again in part three. In the end I found it quite an easy book to read, lots of white space, prose that was easy to take in and I found the pages to turn pretty fast. I believe that no really good book should ever tell you every little detail - as a reader I want to be left feeling that I saw more than what the author wrote. I don't want every clue and connection between different places in the story to be pointed out to me. At the end of the book I felt that I had hundreds of jigsaw pieces in my head. A lot of them (not all of them) were well crafted and interesting to read. What I didn't have was quite enough to manage to piece them together into a coherent whole. I was left feeling that I wasn't quite clever enough for the book. There's obviously a lot of \"second reading\" life in this book; I suspect I'd find it a better read second time around but there are too many good books waiting to be read first time around and I don't read many books again, and I don't think this will be one of the few. Although I found most of the book a good read, my first, and last, impressions were that it wasn't a good book to win the Booker Prize and I hope that there are books more worthy of the prize on the longlist. ...more Well, where to begin? I was already a fan of Nicola Barker (apart from the atrocious Burley Cross Postbox Theft ), and I finally read this book five years after it was first published. First of all, I was horrified to find a novel set in a sanserif typeface, even if it is the elegant, modernist Frutiger. It\u2019s an accepted typographic rule that novels need serifs! However, the necessity of this typographic rule is entirely disproved by this book, as the lack of serifs did not hinder my reading at al Well, where to begin? I was already a fan of Nicola Barker (apart from the atrocious Burley Cross Postbox Theft ), and I finally read this book five years after it was first published. First of all, I was horrified to find a novel set in a sanserif typeface, even if it is the elegant, modernist Frutiger. It\u2019s an accepted typographic rule that novels need serifs! However, the necessity of this typographic rule is entirely disproved by this book, as the lack of serifs did not hinder my reading at all. I was equally horrified at first to find a bold, ornate serif font for the passages which were meant to be in another language \u2026 I found that the book began very slowly, and the first hundred or so pages dragged. Soon after that, though, I found the pace picked up, and in the end, it did not seem like a book of over 800 pages. Nicola Barker is clearly an acquired taste (and it occurs to me that her style of writing would be \u2013 What? Easy to parody? \u2013 rather like this) but that\u2019s just a fact with which her readers have to come to terms. When the story draws to a close, there are a great many ends left hanging, and probably more questions are asked than are answered. In this respect it is, as others have said, much like a David Lynch film such as Mulholland Dr. This does not bother me, and in the case of this book, it\u2019s a fantastic ride, even if it doesn\u2019t actually take you anywhere in the end! Hence four stars from me, as I \u2018really liked it\u2019. ...more Oh dear. This is the worst kind of book - long (838 pages), doesnt go anywhere and leaves you wondering what the hell it was all about. And to top it all off, it doesnt even match the blurb on the back that says its to do with 20th century getting possessed by a medieveal spirit. I dont think that happens - but then again, I was so bored, it could have. So why put up with it.... I dont really know. They was enough humour in the first 300 pages (that admitedly, due to the gaps, were rapidly despat Oh dear. This is the worst kind of book - long (838 pages), doesnt go anywhere and leaves you wondering what the hell it was all about. And to top it all off, it doesnt even match the blurb on the back that says its to do with 20th century getting possessed by a medieveal spirit. I dont think that happens - but then again, I was so bored, it could have. So why put up with it.... I dont really know. They was enough humour in the first 300 pages (that admitedly, due to the gaps, were rapidly despatched) to hope that the book would actually progress. So its set in Ashford and we have Beede - middle aged, consciensous and father of Keene - prescription drug dealer. They are both besotted with Ellen who is a chirpodist and married to Isodor - a germanic nu job. The only really interesting character is Kelly - ex girlfiend of Keene - who is working class slutty scum - but she does has something to say at least. So on it goes - conversations between the characters are recorded - there is an underlying theme of language - but ultimately - you dont know what the book is trying to get across and more to the point, there is no plot. It is simply not funny enough to carry this off for 838 pages - although there are some memorable lines such as \"all mountaineerers are cunts\". A monumental waste of time and probably the fourth book in a row - where the highest rating could be given as very average. ...more I bought this gigantic (838 pages) novel for a few reasons. I always look for gigantic books to sate my reading speed; I liked the typeface, different than usual; it was clearly experimental in terms of time sequence and point of view (the text often shows internal thought processes); and it was a supposedly funny British writer. These reasons all remained valid, except for it being funny (and maybe that was just me, I don't find small dogs with crippled back legs peeing on people funny), but I I bought this gigantic (838 pages) novel for a few reasons. I always look for gigantic books to sate my reading speed; I liked the typeface, different than usual; it was clearly experimental in terms of time sequence and point of view (the text often shows internal thought processes); and it was a supposedly funny British writer. These reasons all remained valid, except for it being funny (and maybe that was just me, I don't find small dogs with crippled back legs peeing on people funny), but I hated this thing. In the first 150 pages or so, the jumping around made it difficult to figure out what was going on or who anyone was. Then it settled in a bit and it was possible to follow the story for a while... then entirely nonsensical events began to take place, all hell broke loose, and I have no idea what actually happened in the story, other than the minute, thematic, and oft-repeated actions of the characters. I think there might have been a demon, or some kind of possession from the past, but who knows. I did like one scene where a woman locks a man in her antique pillory. The writer's construction of characters is engaging, and there was some interesting stuff on language origins and overlap, but I only finished this book because I didn't have anything else to move on to, and I'm relieved it's over now. ...more The inhabiting spirit of a long-dead court jester causes unrest (but also reconciliation) among citizens of Ashford... I think. Not much of a synopsis considering it took me several weeks to plow through 800+ pages! I really like how Nicola Barker carefully introduces each of the characters and that they are fully-fleshed creations even if she does push them around like pawns some of the time. It's very skilful, sometimes very funny, and because the setting is a part of the world I know well tha The inhabiting spirit of a long-dead court jester causes unrest (but also reconciliation) among citizens of Ashford... I think. Not much of a synopsis considering it took me several weeks to plow through 800+ pages! I really like how Nicola Barker carefully introduces each of the characters and that they are fully-fleshed creations even if she does push them around like pawns some of the time. It's very skilful, sometimes very funny, and because the setting is a part of the world I know well that adds to the fun. There are some nice barbs at targets like unreliable builders and self-important aldermen and a suspiciously contrived ending - I assume this is a deliberate device - that very neatly ties up some of the loose ends but leaves some unresolved. (For example - spoiler alert - a scratchcard that just happens to be found in some rubbish when a character is hunting for a cigarette lighter turns out to be worth \u00a340000, almost exactly the same figure as a closely related character's total debts.) I do think it is too long though! ...more I am still reeling from Nicola's incredibly unique writing style. Her characters are so authentic & vivacious that after almost 900 pages Kelly & Gaffar now feel a part of my history! I literally damaged my wrist holding this book in bed as I read it & was awakened on several occasions by it falling from my sleepy hands but you just cannot give-up on this crazy & hysterically funny (& tragic) adventure that Nicola takes you on - her writing is ALIVE in a way few authors can h I am still reeling from Nicola's incredibly unique writing style. Her characters are so authentic & vivacious that after almost 900 pages Kelly & Gaffar now feel a part of my history! I literally damaged my wrist holding this book in bed as I read it & was awakened on several occasions by it falling from my sleepy hands but you just cannot give-up on this crazy & hysterically funny (& tragic) adventure that Nicola takes you on - her writing is ALIVE in a way few authors can hope to achieve. What an amazing young talent! Admittedly I still haven't got a clue what the whole book was about & certainly feel as though I am intellectually flawed at not being able to understand the finer nuances (or losing the plot entirely) BUT that - amazingly - did not diminish my enjoyment of this strange yet brilliant book. Treat yourself - you won't regret it - but get bandages to support your hands before you try holding the book :) ...more<---C>Nicola Barker</---C>", "Title": "Darkmans"},
