{"Comments": "I am an Australian of Anglo-Celtic and Northern European background,<---M> meaning that my ancestry is English</---M>, Cornish, Irish, German and Danish, with a bit of Scottish thrown in for good measure. I was born in Sydney, where I still live. More than five generations of my ancestors on both sides were born in Australia. This takes my roots in the country back to the early 19th century, which in white Australian terms is a long time. One of my ancestors was a convict transported from Ireland because he I am an Australian of Anglo-Celtic and Northern European background, meaning that my ancestry is English, Cornish, Irish, German and Danish, with a bit of Scottish thrown in for good measure. I was born in Sydney, where I still live. More than five generations of my ancestors on both sides were born in Australia. This takes my roots in the country back to the early 19th century, which in white Australian terms is a long time. One of my ancestors was a convict transported from Ireland because he committed a petty theft. There's every chance that I have more than one convict ancestor.<---F> My ancestors were not wealthy people</---F>. They have been farmers and shopkeepers and salespeople and musicians and housepainters. My family history attaches me to this place. It is in my blood. Even though I am resolutely urban in my background and my preferences - both my parents, all of my grandparents and most of my great-grandparents were born within the ten kilometres or so which separates the centre of Sydney and the beaches in its eastern suburbs - I am attached to the Australian landscape. The high, bright blue sky, the beaches and the rivers, the scent of gum trees and native flowers and the sound of native birds are all part of me. As much as I love travelling and as much as I can appreciate other, softer landscapes, the one which surrounds me is the one which moves me the most. For all of these reasons, this is a novel which speaks to me. It probably should be compulsory reading for all Australians and certainly for all Australians whose ancestors arrived in colonial times. This is their story and it is in many respects an ugly one. The central character, William Thornhill, is a boatman on the Thames, who lives in grinding poverty with his wife and child. In 1806, having been convicted of a theft committed to feed his family, Thornhill's death sentence is commuted to transportation to the penal colony of New South Wales. Over time, Thornhill achieves the status of an emancipated convict and settles on a stretch of land on the Hawkesbury River. In this environment, he, his family and other white settlers come into contact with the local indigenous inhabitants. The indigenous people have no reason to leave the area just because settlers move in, planting crops and building huts and fences. However, the fences cut off their food sources and this makes conflict inevitable. Ultimately, Thornhill has to decide what he is prepared to do to keep the land which has become his obsession. Fundamentally, the novel is about the Australian colonial experience. The title has two meanings. To Thornhill, the Hawkesbury River is a \"secret river\" because its entrance from the bay into which it feeds is hard to find. However, it's also a reference to the phrase used by anthropologist W. E. H. Stanner in a lecture in 1968 when he described the brutal acts of genocide against the indigenous people by British colonisers and the subsequent silence about these events, as \"the secret river of blood in Australian history\". The narrative describes some horrific events. It also suggests that these events occurred not because evil people wanted to commit unspeakable acts, but because of a total lack of understanding between the white and the indigenous communities. These were groups of people not simply separated by language, but by their entire way of life. The indigenous people had no concept of private ownership and did not build fences. From the point of view of the settlers, this meant that the indigenous people had no relationship with the land. Nothing could be further from the truth and the colonisation of this land meant the dispossession of the original inhabitants. The effects of this dispossession reverberate more than 200 years later. Grenville creates a strong sense of time and place. While the narrative is exclusively from Thornhill's point of view, she allows the reader to understand how the conflict affected both sides. Just as the indigenous people had nowhere to go when their land was taken away from them, poor settlers (in the early days most of them, like Thornhill, were emancipated convicts) also had nowhere to go. They could not return to England and they had to make the best of what they had here. For them, making a living from the land was an economic imperative, a matter of life and death for themselves and their families. But rather than learn about the land from those who already lived there - and who would have been prepared to share it - they imposed their ways, with devastating consequences. A few days after finishing the novel, I am still haunted by it. I can understand that the narrative will not have the same affect on those who are not connected to the history it tells. But I feel part of that history and Grenville's work really speaks to me. I almost took away a star because of a phrase which was so frequently used that it started to irritate me, but that impulse subsided after I finished reading. My lasting impression will be of the atmosphere Grenville created and the insight and sensitivity she demonstrated in telling the story. I decided to read the novel now in anticipation of seeing this theatrical adaptation of the novel next month. The play has been adapted from the novel by one of my favourite playwrights and will be directed by one of my favourite directors. I'm looking forward to seeing it more than ever. ...more Yes, this book is admirably researched and yes, the basic premise is interesting. But no, it is not particularly absorbing and no, it is not well written. I have a particular bias against writers that spend an inordinate amount of time on painstaking (read painful) descriptions of setting. The novel is 334 pages long - about 80 per cent of that is taken up with environmental minutiae (or at least it felt like it). Pages and pages of it - then perhaps a couple of lines of dialogue, hidden away in Yes, this book is admirably researched and yes, the basic premise is interesting. But no, it is not particularly absorbing and no, it is not well written. I have a particular bias against writers that spend an inordinate amount of time on painstaking (read painful) descriptions of setting. The novel is 334 pages long - about 80 per cent of that is taken up with environmental minutiae (or at least it felt like it). Pages and pages of it - then perhaps a couple of lines of dialogue, hidden away in italics as if it were something to be ashamed of. The characters mumble their way through the book, and no-one has anything of significant interest to say. As a protagonist, Will Thornhill is the biggest 'dumb-arse' I've ever had the misfortune to come across. Sure, Grenville is probably being ruthlessly true to historical fact - colonial Australia was populated by simple-minded petty criminals and their ignorance in this exotic setting is not far-fetched. But that doesn't necessarily make for great fiction and what was needed here was for the main character, at least, to leap-frog this cultural intertia and actually LEARN something. The ham-fisted Thornhill lacks any developent whatsoever - he has no real insight and experiences no epiphany. By the end of the book, Grenville purports him to be a wealthy landowner, whilst I would have probably placed him into a sheltered workshop. But I did at least empathise on one point. As I laboured towards the closing pages, I also was more than ready for my Ticket of Leave. ...more For years I\u2019d wanted to have a go at this, and when Grenville was again nominated for an Australian Prime Minister\u2019s Award for the third book in the trilogy ( Sarah Thornhill ) of which this novel is the first, I finally decided to begin at the beginning. This novel was a finalist for the Man Booker Prize in 2006, and won numerous other awards when it came out, for good reason. It is old-time storytelling, whose characters who begin life poor and grubby on the streets of London early in the ninete For years I\u2019d wanted to have a go at this, and when Grenville was again nominated for an Australian Prime Minister\u2019s Award for the third book in the trilogy ( Sarah Thornhill ) of which this novel is the first, I finally decided to begin at the beginning. This novel was a finalist for the Man Booker Prize in 2006, and won numerous other awards when it came out, for good reason. It is old-time storytelling, whose characters who begin life poor and grubby on the streets of London early in the nineteenth century, get \u201csent down\u201d to Australia in a convict ship, earn their freedom, and scratch out an existence in that unholy land. Grenville\u2019s descriptions of early nineteenth century London evoke a world crammed with humanity living cheek-by-jowl on crooked cobbled streets, cold and grimy with coal dust. Grenville contrasts this with the dry heat of Australia, blazing with sun, and the wide open, unsettled (and unsettling) bigness of it. The Australian Aborigine is caught to perfection in her words\u2026the thinness, the looseness of limbs, the blackness, the brows, the teeth, the joy, the dignity and fierceness. Her language is Dickensian, her story that of Australia. Parts of this book are difficult to read, they seem so cruel. That man is a fearful and fearsome creature, we know. It is just painful to see ourselves through that glass so darkly reflected. I can hardly recommend this title enough. I have loved the writing of <---A>Kate Grenville</---A> forever, it seems. She has the potential for greatness, and while some of her books may not quite reach that level, this one does. I listened to this book on Blackstone Audio, narrated by the excellent Simon Vance. For those who come away from this book with that breathless sense of needing to know how she did that, she has written a memoir about writing the novel called Searching For <+++>The Secret River</+++>: A Writing Memoir . I believe it took her as long to come down from writing it as it will take us to absorb it. I look forward to enjoying her skills again. ...more From a young age William Thornhill knew what it was like to live rough and go with out and to feel hungry all the time. Living with his family in the slums of London along the Thames River he is forced to steal as a means of survival. He is only thirteen when his parents die which is when things start looking increasingly grim. William gets friendly with one of his sisters friends, Sarah (Sal) Middleton who is an only child. She may not have been the prettiest girl, but William thinks things loo From a young age William Thornhill knew what it was like to live rough and go with out and to feel hungry all the time. Living with his family in the slums of London along the Thames River he is forced to steal as a means of survival. He is only thirteen when his parents die which is when things start looking increasingly grim. William gets friendly with one of his sisters friends, Sarah (Sal) Middleton who is an only child. She may not have been the prettiest girl, but William thinks things look a whole brighter when she is around. Not long after Williams parents died Mr Middleton takes William on as an apprentice where he'll learn to be a waterman and at the end of his seven year apprenticeship he'll be a freeman of the Thames River. Having a great love for the river and not being afraid of hard work, William is in his element and it seems life has taken a turn for the better. William also knows that once he has a trade behind him he'll be able to marry Sal and settle down and start a family of their own. Seven years on and everything is going just the way William had hoped it would. He married Sal and they have their first child William (Willie). They couldn't be happier until one day when William is caught stealing wood and from here their lives will start to go down hill very quickly. William is thrown into The Old Bailey where he is sentenced to hang. Sal does all she can to stop this from happening. Eventually he is granted a pardon for his crime on the condition he be transported to the Eastern part of New South Wales for the term of his sentence. In 1806 William arrives in Sydney Cove where he will serve his sentence with his wife and growing family. William is determined that one day he'll own a piece of land, build a house and provide for his wife and children. This won't be so easy as he struggles with the aboriginal people for ownership of the land. This is a brilliantly written piece of historical fiction which I believe every Australian should read. I found this book to be a very interesting and engaging story as well as a very powerful read. Highly recommended. ...more <+++>The Secret River</+++> explores human instinct on a level that is visceral, honest... and depressing. Or perhaps it is just Western instinct, rather than human instinct--and that is even more depressing. The novel tracks a family of Brits at the turn of the 19th century as the family is deported to Australia for crimes committed by William Thornhill, husband and father, and as it engages the challenges of the wilderness. At its core, The Secret River is the story of the family's interactions with the a The Secret River explores human instinct on a level that is visceral, honest... and depressing. Or perhaps it is just Western instinct, rather than human instinct--and that is even more depressing. The novel tracks a family of Brits at the turn of the 19th century as the family is deported to Australia for crimes committed by William Thornhill, husband and father, and as it engages the challenges of the wilderness. At its core, The Secret River is the story of the family's interactions with the aborigines--interactions both peaceful and confrontational--and the conflict between, on one side, the family's desire to establish a settlement of their own and on the other side, the relationship already shared between the aborigines and the land. The theme that guides this conflict is how different people provide for themselves and for their families, and the novel gradually reveals two central models for doing so. The first is the growing fetish for materialism, isolation, and ownership among most of the British settlers. And the second is the communal, minimalist existence of the Aborigines. Naturally, the efficient and simple existence of the \"blacks\"--as they are often called in the novel--reveals the moral turpitude of the settlers. We (of European descent) are embarrassed by the (male) settlers who show little ability to reason, empathize, cooperate, and/or communicate. Most of the British characters are dumb or ineffective; they victimize others and act selfishly and violently. Their actions are formulaic and predictable, right up to the end. But here's the rub. At every step there's a sense that their brute actions are inevitable and that the result--if we search our baser instincts, however \"morally\" repulsive and inhumane the means may be--is desirable. The driving away of the aborigines for the sake of establishing a safe homestead feels like the inexorable march of the West. It feels safe. It feels alpha. The novel reveals the inherent ugliness of this instinct. I was frustrated by the idiotic behavior of many characters' actions, and then I felt resigned to the inevitability of the past two centuries of history. It's a sad, sad tale of Western expansion and waste. And the romance between William and Sal, his wife, unfortunately does little to assuage the ill feelings. It felt cold, rather than heroic. Yet, there's something real in this book; it taps into a visceral and unspoken impulse, something too ugly and complicated to address casually. That makes The Secret River valuable, even if it is not always pleasurable. Do I recommend it? Sure. Loosely. It's interesting cultural history. Would I teach it? Mmm... As a summer reading selection, but not chapter by chapter. Lasting impression: Transparent, brutal men; clever women; inevitable march of the West; failure of humanity. ...more I was given the box set of these three books for Christmas a few years back and though I liked the writing very much... they are not very big books ...I thought there was room for a bit more in-depth story about the Thornhills as a family and as individuals. I felt they were ultimately portrayed in a more villainous light than they actually appeared to be. Given the circumstances I believe it would have been an equally frightening experience for all concerned and that they (the Thornhills and th I was given the box set of these three books for Christmas a few years back and though I liked the writing very much... they are not very big books ...I thought there was room for a bit more in-depth story about the Thornhills as a family and as individuals. I felt they were ultimately portrayed in a more villainous light than they actually appeared to be. Given the circumstances I believe it would have been an equally frightening experience for all concerned and that they (the Thornhills and the Indigenous people) through their ignorance of each others' cultures, were all victims of circumstances beyond their full comprehension, and that the 'real' villains had cast them all in such a very bad light. This led to the domino effect that was to become a cataclysm of everlasting effect. Very confronting and thought provoking given that they are based on true accounts of our early settlers to Sydney and environs. As a 5th generation Australian and Family Historian, I am always deeply and emotionally affected in ways I can't describe when reading of the many and varied struggles, challenges and confrontations of those early times ....I for one am truly Sorry that it was that way....I wish it could have been different. I applaud Kate Grenville and others like her for finally getting these important stories about our history out into the open, warts and all. I look forward to seeing more of them come to life. My only hope is that a balanced perspective will always prevail, lest we unwittingly perpetuate a culture of blame and shame. Recently I had the very great pleasure of seeing the stage play of Kate Grenville's \"The Secret River\" in a Sydney Theatre...Wonderful cast, wonderful production and hauntingly beautiful music...***** stars. . ...more I honestly hope that my response to this was not simply born out of two simple facts. 1) That I studied this novel in year 12 (and as such had not reviewed it until now) and 2) that I'm honestly irritated by the repetitive nature of Australian literature centred around these themes. I've read too many stories that take a simplistic approach to the Indigenous/settler relations and come up with a 'the settlers were bad cuz they killed all them natives' mentality. I don't think things are that simp I honestly hope that my response to this was not simply born out of two simple facts. 1) That I studied this novel in year 12 (and as such had not reviewed it until now) and 2) that I'm honestly irritated by the repetitive nature of Australian literature centred around these themes. I've read too many stories that take a simplistic approach to the Indigenous/settler relations and come up with a 'the settlers were bad cuz they killed all them natives' mentality. I don't think things are that simple. Or rather I do not think things should be canvassed that simply in this case. It is history after all. I prefer a text such as the film The Tracker which deals with the issue in a way that shows the great complexity to the issues. Simply put, aside from the bland writing and the frustrating lack of quotation marks (don't authors get that it makes it difficult to see when people are talking or thinking? I don't care that it makes a book 'different.'), the topic has been done much better elsewhere. And that is why this is one of those books I just would never really go back and re-read. It simply isn't one I think is worth my time. It's not the worst written book. It's not the worst ever book I've seen. It simply is not remarkable. It rehashes the same moralistic 'one side is bad' routine. It refuses to look at all perspectives. And that in my eyes is wrong! ...more There is much that is good about Kate Grenville\u2019s novel, but what impressed me most is her ability to get so deeply inside a character that she can show what the world looks like through his eyes . (Forgive the \u201che\u201d: Grenville\u2019s central character in this novel is a man.) Here is William Thornhill, Thames River lighterman: After a time the mud-choked water and the ships it carried, thick on its back like fleas on a dog, became nothing more than a big room of which every corner was known. He came t There is much that is good about Kate Grenville\u2019s novel, but what impressed me most is her ability to get so deeply inside a character that she can show what the world looks like through his eyes . (Forgive the \u201che\u201d: Grenville\u2019s central character in this novel is a man.) Here is William Thornhill, Thames River lighterman: After a time the mud-choked water and the ships it carried, thick on its back like fleas on a dog, became nothing more than a big room of which every corner was known. He came to love that wide pale light around him out on the river, the falling away of insignificant things in the face of the great radiance of the sky. He would rest on the oars at Hungerford Reach, where the tide could be relied on to sweep him around, and stare along the water at the way the light wrapped itself around every object. (p.34) Here he is in 1806, transported to the colony of New South Wales \u201cduring the term of his Natural Life\u201d (p.74), bewildered by the strangeness of the environment: Instead of dropping their leaves [eucalyptus trees] cast off their bark so it dangled among the branches like dirty rags. In every direction that the eye travelled from the settlement all it could see were the immense bulges and distances of that grey-green forest. There was something about its tangle that seemed to make the eye blind, searching for pattern and finding none. It was exhausting to look at: different everywhere and yet everywhere the same. (p.91) And here is Grenville\u2019s description of how Thornhill perceived the Aboriginal people of Australia: There were no signs that the blacks felt the place belonged to them. They had no fences that said, this is mine. No house that said, this is our home. There were no fields or flocks that said, we have put the labour of our hands into this place. (p.96) The minute we read this we see his terrible error. Once Thornhill is freed and moves with his family to a piece of land up the Hawkesbury River to grow corn and raise hogs, the stage is set for a confrontation that we know will be violent. At this point I found the tension unbearable and\u2014so as to be able to sleep at night--had to put the book down and read something else ( Robert Dessaix \u2019s wonderful A Mother's Disgrace ). We all know that white settlers in Australia committed atrocities of all sorts as they wrested the land from its Aboriginal inhabitants; Grenville successfully uses fiction to show why that happened: how people who arrived with nothing were corrupted by the possibility the colony offered to have something. Grenville\u2019s novel offers much more than this, of course: I can\u2019t recommend it highly enough. ...more This is one of those books I've meant to read for a long time, but never felt a strong urge until I saw the recent mini-series on TV. Sadly for me, it must have created an urge for just about everyone else to read the book as well so I had a couple of months waiting impatiently for a library copy. I can't imagine how difficult life was for my early ancestors. Transported to new colony that very little was known about, and finding things all upside down. The seasons were different, the wildlif This is one of those books I've meant to read for a long time, but never felt a strong urge until I saw the recent mini-series on TV. Sadly for me, it must have created an urge for just about everyone else to read the book as well so I had a couple of months waiting impatiently for a library copy. I can't imagine how difficult life was for my early ancestors. Transported to new colony that very little was known about, and finding things all upside down. The seasons were different, the wildlife was unlike anything they could imagine, even the flora was different (as we see in Sal's yearning for green, deciduous trees). This was a rough start colony. But another thing was different too. This was a land where anyone could make their fortune, regardless of how they arrived in the colony. It was an opportunity many grasped as they made new lives for themselves. There is a strong pride in Australia for our European roots and for our convict heritage. Kate Grenville's book is concerned with this. Through convict Will Thornhill, his family, and other settlers, we see the differing attitudes of Euopeans to the Aboriginal people. From Thomas Blackwood who utters; Ain't nothing in this world just for the taking... A man got to pay a fair price for taking... Matter of give a little, take a little. It's the only way. To Smasher Sulliver whose view was; Sterminate them... No one going to come straight out and say it but ain't it the only way? Will's family provides a microcosm for how the Aboriginals were viewed. From Will, who is driven to succeed and then to protect what he sees as rightfully his, no matter the cost to the Aboriginals. To Sal, who is fearful, but attempts some interactions with those she comes across. To Dick, a child. Children will play with any child because they have not yet been taught that skin colour matters. So the story moves toward the shocking, distressing, and inevitable ending. When I saw the mini-series I had to turn the TV off, so distressing were these scenes. The last 50 pages of this book are the same. Very difficult to read, and they a sense of shame for what our ancestors did. Winners write the history. That's why January 26 is still celebrated and called Australia Day. Grenville gives the other side a voice in this book. She isn't didactic; in fact she shows very well the conditions European arrivals were confronted with and how the conditions supported the tensions between Aboriginals and Europeans. The takeaway from this book is to consider the other side of our history. The side we don't like to talk about. The side we need to talk about. Our national shame. I am sorry. We are sorry. ...more There is no way to sugar-coat the shocking adventures of this novel. The hardship and horror of the Australian released prisoners trying to make a life for themselves and the Aborigines who want to keep their land will take your breath away. It is moving, emotional and also a distressful look at a slice of Australian history. In late 1700s England, William Thornhill\u2019s family slowly slide into a bleak life of destitution causing him to steal food to keep his family from starving. He is caught and There is no way to sugar-coat the shocking adventures of this novel. The hardship and horror of the Australian released prisoners trying to make a life for themselves and the Aborigines who want to keep their land will take your breath away. It is moving, emotional and also a distressful look at a slice of Australian history. In late 1700s England, William Thornhill\u2019s family slowly slide into a bleak life of destitution causing him to steal food to keep his family from starving. He is caught and sentenced to hang but is spared at the last minute. He and his family are sent, by the English courts, to prison life in New South Wales, Australia. When his time is served he is released into the wilds of the land to make a life for himself, his wife and his small child. They do fairly well in the Sydney settlement, however, much to his wife\u2019s dismay, William has bigger dreams. He wants to venture out and own his own piece of land up the Hawkesbury River. As he gets his farm started he faces a larger challenge. The natives of the land want to see him gone and they set out to make that happen! This is an extremely emotional story based on the true history of the confrontations between the whites and the blacks during a time when both sides had to fight for the land. I really like Kate Grenville\u2019s straight forward and descriptive way of telling this expressive slice of history. This is the first book in a series of three and I definitely plan to read the next two soon! ...more When William Thornhill was a child in the slums of London, his family was incredibly poor\u2026stealing just to survive. His sister Lizzie\u2019s friend lived in Swan Lane, and she became like a sister to William. Sal Middleton became central in William\u2019s life, and when his parents died, first his Mum, then his Dad soon afterwards, and left him and his siblings orphaned, he was able to spend time with Sal, in the warmth of her home, within the love of her parents. Mr Middleton took William on as an apprent When William Thornhill was a child in the slums of London, his family was incredibly poor\u2026stealing just to survive. His sister Lizzie\u2019s friend lived in Swan Lane, and she became like a sister to William. Sal Middleton became central in William\u2019s life, and when his parents died, first his Mum, then his Dad soon afterwards, and left him and his siblings orphaned, he was able to spend time with Sal, in the warmth of her home, within the love of her parents. Mr Middleton took William on as an apprentice the year he turned fourteen, and he began learning to be a waterman... he loved the river, and was never afraid of hard work, and was looking forward to the end of the seven year apprenticeship, when he\u2019d be a freeman of the River Thames. He would marry Sal and their future would be secure. After their marriage, seven years later, they couldn\u2019t have been happier. And when Sal presented him with their first child, William, or Willie as he was known, life took on a rosy hue. But suddenly, their world came crashing down around them, and William began thieving again, just to keep their heads above water. When he was caught, thrown into The Old Bailey, and then sentenced to hang, it seemed there was no hope. But Sal wouldn\u2019t give up\u2026\u2026.. On a bitterly cold morning in September, 1806, William arrived in Sydney Cove aboard the Alexander , after almost a year at sea. He was \u2018given\u2019 to his wife, Sal, who was to be his master, as she was free, and he had to serve for the term of his natural life. Sal had had their second child on the voyage, named Richard, known as Dick, and he was a fretful child. The journey of William Thornhill, his wife Sal and their children is a brilliant one. I thoroughly enjoyed it, and the continuing history of their lives, first in Sydney, then on the Hawkesbury as a free man, with the Aboriginals already living on the river, the skirmishes with the \u2018savages\u2019, the language barrier, the beautiful but wildly untamed land \u2026 I would highly recommend this book to anyone who hasn\u2019t read it as yet! ...more What a contrast in stories from my last read! This book was a great story from the first moment to the last. I listened to this book via Blackstone Audio, narrated by Simon Vance. The story begins early in 1800 and follows the life of Will Thornton from London to Sydney, Australia. He and his family are sent to live there. He goes because he was caught stealing. His wife and baby went because they had no where else to go and no one to support them. It is a very complete story with great characte What a contrast in stories from my last read! This book was a great story from the first moment to the last. I listened to this book via Blackstone Audio, narrated by Simon Vance. The story begins early in 1800 and follows the life of Will Thornton from London to Sydney, Australia. He and his family are sent to live there. He goes because he was caught stealing. His wife and baby went because they had no where else to go and no one to support them. It is a very complete story with great characters and action. What an eye-opening look at how the British penal system worked and transported prisoners and their families to Australia. What I really wanted to know about were the conditions between the Aborigines and the white settlers and I wasn't disappointed. The blacks - as the white farmers call them were mostly viewed as pests and no accounts. Nothing they did made any sense to the whites. They did not work, went around mostly naked and played and slept most of the time. They took things and ignored the white people who tried to talk to them. They came and went when they wanted and mostly refused any food that the whites tried to give them. In the end, sadly, they were massacred. They had gotten tired of the whites taking their women, indiscriminate killing and destroying their food sources. They tried to rebel against the settlers - always a bad thing... I loved the relationship between Will and his wife Sal. It was a love story from the very beginning. He was not always a very nice person, but he was a much better man than some of the other characters in the story. I hope you enjoy it as much as I did! ...more It was my pleasure to review this excellent book for Harper Collins Canada. Here's what I said: The Secret River by Kate Grenville is historical fiction at it\u2019s finest. It starts off as a quiet pondering story of the toils in poverty-stricken 19th century England where most must resort to stealing to survive. Here Grenville focused on her central character, William Thornhill who got caught thieving to feed his family. He was sentenced to death, however that was commuted to life in New South Wales It was my pleasure to review this excellent book for Harper Collins Canada. Here's what I said: The Secret River by Kate Grenville is historical fiction at it\u2019s finest. It starts off as a quiet pondering story of the toils in poverty-stricken 19th century England where most must resort to stealing to survive. Here Grenville focused on her central character, William Thornhill who got caught thieving to feed his family. He was sentenced to death, however that was commuted to life in New South Wales. The story then turns to the survival of the Thornhill family in a new world, with a harsh hot climate and struggles with it\u2019s original inhabitants, the aboriginals. Grenville writes in a quite meditative style until the Thornhills encounter the aboriginals. Then she breaks out as she shows the brutal price that must be paid by both the new inhabitants and aboriginals of New South Wales. The Secret River is a very satisfying read that will make you hungry to read more by Kate Grenville! ...more Having read a lot of five star reviews for this book I was hoping for something great but for me it turned out just ordinary. I really feel I have read this same kind of story so many times and some of them were better told than this one. It was a fairly short book and the story moved along well. Kate Grenville is like Bryce Courtney in that she seems to revel in the dirt and grime of that age and she was very into describing the atrocities committed between the settlers and the indigenous peopl Having read a lot of five star reviews for this book I was hoping for something great but for me it turned out just ordinary. I really feel I have read this same kind of story so many times and some of them were better told than this one. It was a fairly short book and the story moved along well. Kate Grenville is like Bryce Courtney in that she seems to revel in the dirt and grime of that age and she was very into describing the atrocities committed between the settlers and the indigenous people. I had to skim over some of that. So not a bad book but not amongst the best I have read either. ...more This book kicked me. I was sitting there thinking about the human condition, and why we are such scared arseholes, and a baby chicken jumps up next to me, snuggles down and wraps her head around into my lap. Some times we aren't I guess. Some times chickens, who are a bit naive, love you to bits. So I think this book should be sold/lent/issued with a chicken. So you have something fluffy to love you while you read it. That being said, the book was great. It was a book that tells you the story of This book kicked me. I was sitting there thinking about the human condition, and why we are such scared arseholes, and a baby chicken jumps up next to me, snuggles down and wraps her head around into my lap. Some times we aren't I guess. Some times chickens, who are a bit naive, love you to bits. So I think this book should be sold/lent/issued with a chicken. So you have something fluffy to love you while you read it. That being said, the book was great. It was a book that tells you the story of William Thornhill, who was born into extreme poverty in London. He turns to being a thief but is given a chance at life by being taken on as a waterman's (boatman's) apprentice on the Thames. He marries the girl he loves, and everything is going well. Until it is not. Like so many people in the 1800s. He is caught thieving again, sentenced to death but reprieved by being sent to the colony of New South Wales. I feel like I have spoiled half the book for you. But THIS is where the book begins. This book tells the story of so many men and women that came out to Australia in the 1800s. They were shipped from the biggest city in the world to the most remote place on earth. And they survived, and prospered. As a great, great, great granddaughter of one of them, that's astounding, and I'm glad they did. What is the thing that makes me emotional though, is not that part. It's what white Australians did to survive. That's the thing that kicks me in the guts. That's the thing, as an Australian that I know is creeping up on me from every crevice of this book. I understand. I understand the terror. The fear of the unknown. The fear for your family. But it does not excuse at all the horror we unleashed again, and again, and again, and still again even now. There is still a division in our country. We should be better. We are slightly, but not at all enough. The right calls this a guilt agenda. I do not feel guilty for what my convict ancestor did or didn't do in 1820 or so as he didn't know better. I feel guilty as educated people in 201...4 we are doing terrible things still. This book was brilliant and humbling. And if you don't know much about the very first settlers to Australia from Britain, it's not a bad way to learn. For more reviews visit http://rusalkii.blogspot.com.au/ ...more The most remarkable quality of Kate Grenville's new novel is the way it conveys the enormous tragedy of Australia's founding through the moral compromises of a single ordinary man. \"The Secret River\" reminds us that national history may be recorded as a succession of larger-than-life leaders and battles, but in fact a country arises from the accretion of personal dreams, private sacrifices and, often, hidden acts of cruelty. The special power of this novel took me off guard because several years The most remarkable quality of Kate Grenville's new novel is the way it conveys the enormous tragedy of Australia's founding through the moral compromises of a single ordinary man. \"The Secret River\" reminds us that national history may be recorded as a succession of larger-than-life leaders and battles, but in fact a country arises from the accretion of personal dreams, private sacrifices and, often, hidden acts of cruelty. The special power of this novel took me off guard because several years ago Grenville wrote one of my favorite romantic comedies, \" The Idea of Perfection ,\" which won the Orange Prize. Now she's earned the Commonwealth Prize for The Secret River, and though it betrays none of her comic zest, that's just a testament to her range. In this tragic story of colonization, everyone suffers. The aborigines, of course, are decimated. But what's harder to show is the strangling of conscience in those who triumph. That aspect allows \"The Secret River\" to speak to our country as clearly and profoundly as it speaks to hers. The novel opens in late 18th-century London. Young William Thornhill has a cruel sense of how common he is in the vast machinery of the city that chews up his parents and leaves him an orphan. But he's exceptionally strong and determined; he gets an apprenticeship as a waterman (rowing a kind of river-taxi), falls in love with a good woman and begins to imagine that his life won't be a wretched struggle after all. Grenville knows just how to build this meager prosperity so that we can't help but swell with hope for William's future even as threats mount. Through a series of small, frighteningly plausible misfortunes, William and his wife, Sal, lose everything and turn to theft to survive. Soon after that, just as inevitably, William is arrested and sentenced to death. But Sal, unwilling to accept early widowhood, works the legal system as best she can and gets William and his family exiled to the penal colony of New South Wales. This lengthy introduction -- besides being harrowing and tremendously entertaining -- sets the foundation for the main story about the early settlement of the land Down Under by Britain's criminal refuse. When the Thornhills are finally dumped in Sydney, after a nine-month voyage in dark, separate quarters, they have nothing to call their own. But once again, their industrious natures pay off, and they slowly begin to attain some stability, so much so that William lays claim to 100 acres up the river. Sal agrees to give it a try for five years, but she marks the weeks off one by one on the trunk of a tree, a typically insightful detail about the way conflicting aspirations can develop between a loving husband and wife, \"a space of silence\" that comes between them \"like a body of water.\" The problem, of course, is that this is not empty land. There are aborigines living here, even if their way of life makes it difficult for William to understand their sense of belonging. Most of his white neighbors are ignorant, violent men who treat the aborigines as sex slaves or vermin, but William is too decent and too afraid to strike out at them in the recommended ways. Still, after so many years at the bottom of the social scale, he's quickly intoxicated by the idea of being superior. One of the most haunting aspects of this novel is Grenville's portrayal of the aborigines, who appear here as William sees them: alien and intimidating. They move too quietly, too smoothly. They're naked with no sense of self-consciousness. They fade in and out of the forest unseen, and yet they don't seem to notice him unless they want to. In the most unnerving moment, William realizes that these apparently primitive people live in a state of leisure that he's never felt -- despite his constant labor. \"They were like gentry,\" he thinks. \"They spent a little time each day on their business, but the rest was their own to enjoy. The difference was that in their universe there was no call for another class of folk who stood waiting up to their thighs in river-water for them to finish their chat so they could be taken to their play or their ladyfriend. In the world of these naked savages, it seemed everyone was gentry.\" Every new progression of William's prosperity brings him closer to open conflict with these people. As the tension builds, he and his wife realize that their \"hut had become a compressed cube of fear.\" All around them swirl stories of atrocities committed by the aborigines and the settlers. William and Sal pretend they can ignore these troubles, but in a devastating finale, William must finally choose between his long cherished dream of success and his sense of himself as a decent human being. Grenville's powerful telling of this story is so moving, so exciting, that you're barely aware of how heavy and profound its meaning is until you reach the end in a moment of stunned sadness. http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/... ...more This was a very interesting read. I have, naturally, heard stories of violence between the early settlers from Britain and the the native Aboriginal people and deplored it from both sides, but after reading this, I can certainly see how it came about. There were such different attitudes between the British and the Aboriginal people - from one group who work hard for possessions that appear to offer security and comfort to another group who tread gently on the earth, leaving little, if any, footp This was a very interesting read. I have, naturally, heard stories of violence between the early settlers from Britain and the the native Aboriginal people and deplored it from both sides, but after reading this, I can certainly see how it came about. There were such different attitudes between the British and the Aboriginal people - from one group who work hard for possessions that appear to offer security and comfort to another group who tread gently on the earth, leaving little, if any, footprint, hunting and gathering as necessary and living in harmony with the land, rather than trying to exploit it. As a member of the former group (sitting in a lounge chair, under a fan powered by electricity [probably generated by a non-renewable energy source] while drinking a glass of cold water from the fridge [also powered by non-renewable energy] and which only had to be collected from the tap in the kitchen in the first place rather than from a spring welling up somewhere), I can understand the early settlers wanting to create something that resembles normality for them and although I can't really fully comprehend the Aboriginal way of life, this book has helped a little and I do feel that I have a bit of understanding about their feeling of fear and desolation when they saw the land upon which they live being taken over by these strange white people. And yet the white people arrived to see a land that looked desolate - no permanent structures and belonging to nobody, at least it appeared that way initially. I can understand how the Aboriginal people - hunters and gatherers - could possibly not have seen any distinction between collecting sticks that they could make into weapons or tools and \"collecting\" items from some of the early settlers' homes, such as spades, axes etc. Or how, if they did see a distinction, might have thought that this would annoy the British and make them go away. I can feel their concern as they see people come in to take over the land on which they find sustenance - when the main character, William, arrives on the patch of land he's decided will be \"his\", there is a little area growing some small radish-like bulbs. He notices this, but still ploughs it up in order to plant his crop of corn. I also don't know how the two groups could have co-existed more peacefully when their attitudes to life were so different, especially given the fact that there was no effective common language. And especially when there are disputes regarding territory all over the world, even when there is a common language, and/or interpreters available. I read the sequel to this, The Lieutenant , last year, before I realised that I should have read this one first... I enjoyed it, although I don't remember how it connected in with the Thornhill family from this one - I had a skim through it just after I finished this one and was still none the wiser... However, I just looked at Kate Grenville 's website and see that the two are connected not by the characters in each, but by the opposite attitudes and actions described - with The Lieutenant showing a more positive side to the British/Aboriginal relationship. It kind of answers my thoughts about other ways the two groups could have gone about interacting - however it still involved violence on both sides... Overall, this was definitely a good read and a valuable insight into the history of Australia in the early 1800's. ...more This story is a narration of immigration, building your HOME in another place, leaving behind life to travel to the unknown. This is what happens to the Thornills. William Thornill was born in one of the poorest places in England, seeing himself forced to steal in order to survive. Sal is his neighbour, who is truly his soulmate and who becomes his wife once he finishes his intership as a boatman with Sal's father. The river Thames is his life. However, he gets used to stealing parts of the shipm This story is a narration of immigration, building your HOME in another place, leaving behind life to travel to the unknown. This is what happens to the Thornills. William Thornill was born in one of the poorest places in England, seeing himself forced to steal in order to survive. Sal is his neighbour, who is truly his soulmate and who becomes his wife once he finishes his intership as a boatman with Sal's father. The river Thames is his life. However, he gets used to stealing parts of the shipments he has to cross from one side to the other of the river, untill he is discovered and sentenced to death. Sal truly saves his life as she encourages him to write to the authorities, sending him and his family to the prison island of Australia. Now starts a new phase in their lives. At the beginning in Sydney, but once William gets a job transporting goods from the residents living in the shores of the river to the main city. Soon, he finds a place he sees as his future home: Thornhill's Point. However, his idyllic idea of how to make the land productive encounters the existence of aboriginal people. Through the story, Thornhill and his family finds themselves having to choose between two approaches towards the aborigines: peaceful co-existence, as his neighbour Blackwood has achieved; or violence, the aggressive way another neighbour called Smasher chooses. The 'civilised' convicts, who have become respectable citizents in the new lands, end up behaving quite 'uncivilised', as the author questions who are the savages. When they are angered, accusing the aborigines of stealing the products of their efforts, they use the word 'thieves', treating the aborigines the same way they were treated in London. This story of colonisation depicts the effects it had in the aboriginal communities, erasing them from their own lands, enslaving them to the colonisers and their customs, being the victims of a mechanical operation to extinguish them completely. ...more A fascinating but sometimes disturbing story. This book deals with a young man in London who is condemned to death for stealing. His life is spared, and he is sent to New South Wales, the penal colony that England founded on the Australian continent. The first part of the book is about the hard life of a river man on the Thames. It's difficult to believe that people could endure such circumstances. Life is good for awhile, and Will Thornhill and his wife, Sal, look forward to a better life for t A fascinating but sometimes disturbing story. This book deals with a young man in London who is condemned to death for stealing. His life is spared, and he is sent to New South Wales, the penal colony that England founded on the Australian continent. The first part of the book is about the hard life of a river man on the Thames. It's difficult to believe that people could endure such circumstances. Life is good for awhile, and Will Thornhill and his wife, Sal, look forward to a better life for their family. Will is a flawed hero, but wants the best for himself and his wife. Hence he risks a theft of valuable wood. Sal is a strong woman who gives her husband courage to fight for his pardon. When they arrive in the penal colony, they begin to make a life and things improve. Will gets his pardon and begins making money by using his skills as a river barge man. Anyone who has read about the settling of Australia, knows that the history parallels the history of the US and the problems that derive from taking land that has been occupied by natives--in this case the Aborigines. This is the disturbing part. Because the white settlers thought the \"blacks\" less than human, they do terrible things to them. We can say today that the settlers didn't understand the Aborigines, but it is unfair to judge them by today's standards. However it doesn't make it any easier to witness the horrors. I did enjoy reading this book as I do most anything about Australia. Grenville creates real people and makes the reader care about them. All along, I kept hoping that Will and Sal would handle themselves differently than the other settlers when dealing with the Aborigines, but that would be unrealistic. Grenville is true to history even though it is not pretty. ...more More special than I expected. I have always liked Kate Grenville's writing, but this book struck a chord with me because I'm familiar with the Hawkesbury area where the Australian part of the story takes place. It is also particularly apt because our Prime Minister just said today that \"I guess our country owes its existence to a form of foreign investment by the British government in the then unsettled, or, um, scarcely settled, Great South Land.\" His \"scarcely settled\" comment seems to have be More special than I expected. I have always liked Kate Grenville's writing, but this book struck a chord with me because I'm familiar with the Hawkesbury area where the Australian part of the story takes place. It is also particularly apt because our Prime Minister just said today that \"I guess our country owes its existence to a form of foreign investment by the British government in the then unsettled, or, um, scarcely settled, Great South Land.\" His \"scarcely settled\" comment seems to have been an afterthought . . . but too late. That's what the English probably thought, since they considered the inhabitants as wildlife. They did not recognise a civilisation of any kind, and our PM, who is also the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, is several generations behind the eight-ball. Grenville's portrayal of the cold, grubby, bleak life her characters led in London is enough to make you itchy with discomfort. The same is true of her clear description of the hard, hard Great South Land and the sparkling beauty of the River and the not-to-be-denied urge of William for his own piece of land, and then more and then more. Really looking forward to reading the next one, as I see this is the first of a trilogy. ...more William Thornhill is the poorest of the poor in early 1800's London. He manages to barely survive his childhood only to continue the struggle into adulthood. Eventually he is convicted of a crime and in lieu of hanging, he (and his wife and child) are sent to the penal colony of New South Wales (Australia). The book is supposed to be more about Thornhill's life in early Australia so I was a bit taken aback by how long it took the story to get there. I'm having a difficult time with this review b William Thornhill is the poorest of the poor in early 1800's London. He manages to barely survive his childhood only to continue the struggle into adulthood. Eventually he is convicted of a crime and in lieu of hanging, he (and his wife and child) are sent to the penal colony of New South Wales (Australia). The book is supposed to be more about Thornhill's life in early Australia so I was a bit taken aback by how long it took the story to get there. I'm having a difficult time with this review because I was very interested in the story and didn't want to put it down, but I didn't feel any empathy or understanding for Thornhill and his fellow colonists as they deal with the \"savages\". I get that due to the lack of education and the mindset of the 19th century, the views of how or why would have been very different but that didn't make it any easier or endearing. Personally, I don't prefer stories when I can't find any redeeming qualities in the characters. I'm torn...I enjoyed the style of writing but not the characters... ...more Exciting times! Only a few weeks until the adaptation of The Secret River hits your screens on Auntie ABC... and, if you think being surprised by plot twists is overrated, we've released an accompanying book of spoilers. We even have a cover specially for it: textpublishing.com.au/books/the-secre... Beginning in 18th Century London, The Secret River tells the story of William Thornhill who becomes a waterman on the Thames and eventually in New South Wales. Kate Grenville has woven a story that should become a classic. Australians have an interesting relationship with our colonial history: part pride, part shame, part love, part wince. Until fairly recently, we were taught little about \"Australian history\" (meaning, always, white colonial history, not Indigenous-Australian history), and what we were taught was mostly the myths. James Cook was a captain (he wasn't, not at the time) and a Great Man (he was okay, but no different from anyone else of his era in his attitude towards indigenous peoples), and that he Australians have an interesting relationship with our colonial history: part pride, part shame, part love, part wince. Until fairly recently, we were taught little about \"Australian history\" (meaning, always, white colonial history, not Indigenous-Australian history), and what we were taught was mostly the myths. James Cook was a captain (he wasn't, not at the time) and a Great Man (he was okay, but no different from anyone else of his era in his attitude towards indigenous peoples), and that he \"discovered\" Australia (he didn't); Joseph Banks was an intelligent, avid botanist who made meticulous records of his findings, and who we have to thank for the first settlement (he was a young, wealthy, egotistical man who shoved specimens willy-nilly into his bag and made some very ignorant observations of the east coast of Australia). That's just the 80s - go back further and people were taught some pretty offensive \"facts\" about the Aborigines. When I was in primary school, I distinctly remember being taught the history of colonial Australia - settlement - from the perspective that the whites came, the soldiers incited violence with the Aboriginals and killed as many as they could, and our ancestors are all rough-made thieves. That's what stuck, anyway. I thought, for the longest time, that being taught about the bad calls made by the British in the early decades of colonialism meant that I hadn't received a pro-white Australia (i.e. biased) teaching. And perhaps I didn't. What's really worrying, though, is that - until university - that was all I was properly taught about Australian history. In an interview with Kate Grenville on ABC radio after the release of The Secret River in 2005, the interviewer, Ramona Koval, links the title of the novel to a line in WEH Stanner's 1968 Boyer Lecture, \"After the Dreaming\". 'There is a secret river of blood in Australian history,' which is the history of our relationship with the Aboriginal people, the river of blood.\" The 'secret river' carries several meanings in connection with the novel, but this is the key one: the unspoken history, the history we're just not taught, the history we all think we know and therefore don't need to hear more about. We spend more time teaching about the bravery and horror of Gallipoli than we do our broader, more complex history - and without an understanding of our history, how are we supposed to truly understand what's happening now ? There is a river of blood in Australian history, or as Grenville put it, \"cupboards\" that we have \"drawn a curtain over\", and The Secret River aims to pull back a curtain on one such cupboard. In telling the story of Will Thornhill, a young man who was born into the extreme poverty of London in 1777, Grenville's larger story is one of miscommunication and misunderstanding - with tragic and long-reaching consequences. The Secret River does what other stories of the time don't quite manage: to remind us that the early settlers of Australia were largely uneducated, illiterate, terrified petty crooks and opportunists, people who knew nothing of the world or life beyond their area of grey, stony and rat-infested London (in Will's case: Southwark). It's not that we don't know that, but that we don't understand the implications. Between the large number of convicts and soldiers - who weren't particularly educated themselves - the Aboriginal peoples were confronted with an influx of people who were unhealthy, with little knowledge of how to grow food, who were frightened and downright struggling. They were also coming from a land where the values of hierarchy, misogyny, religion and profiteering were deeply embedded. Will Thornhill begins life in a harsh environment, a place where every day is a struggle to survive. Just one more mouth to feed in a large family, they often resort to petty theft in order to stay alive. Will gets an unlooked-for break, though, when Mr Middleton takes him on as an apprentice waterman, a proper trade. But disaster strikes after Will becomes a full waterman and marries Mr Middleton's daughter, Sal, his best friend since childhood, and Will and Sal are reduced to petty crime in order to keep themselves and their new baby alive. In taking the time to establish Will's background and the context for his crime as well as the kind of person he is, Grenville helps us realise that quite often, we have unreasonable expectations for our white convict ancestors. We are quick to point a finger at them and lay blame at their feet for the things that happened, for their England-oriented farming style that we are still suffering the side-effects of, but really, we have to put it into context and acknowledge that, while it doesn't excuse it or make up for it, they really \"didn't know any better.\" It's not a nice pill to swallow, because it makes us feel better to lay the blame squarely at the feet of convicts and free settlers alike, alongside Governors and other upper-class officials. But we have hindsight, and they had British imperialism. The story follows Will and his growing family through several years of early Australian settlement in what is now New South Wales. Arriving in Sydney in 1806, Will is made prisoner of his wife - a common thing to do at the time - and works for his ticket of leave. He encounters Blackwood, a man he knew in London who has been here longer and has his own boat, plying a lucrative trade on the River Hawkesbury where ex-convict settlers are growing food but are otherwise cut-off from the main settlement at Sydney, and begins working for him on the Hawkesbury. It is on his first trip up the river that Will sees a piece of land that captures his heart and imagination. Suddenly, he has dreams - dreams of a future, of the kind of life he could never have in London, with a home of his own. Land is easy enough to acquire here. After all, no one else has claimed it. There was a simple process: \"All a person need do was find a place no one had already taken. Plant a crop, build a hut, call the place Smith's or Flanagan's, and out-stare anyone who said otherwise.\" (p.121) Will achieves his full pardon several years after arriving, but convincing Sal to move to what he calls Thornhill's Point is harder. Sal wants to return to London; London is the place that has her heart. The one thing she brought from London was \"a broken piece of clay roof-tile that she had found in the sand by Pickle Herring Stairs the morning of her last day in London.\" (p.88-9) Sal cherishes this piece of tile, which acts like a talisman and an anchor to her past. She plans to take it back one day, back where she found it. \"The thing was like a promise, that London was still there, on the other side of the world, and she would be there too one day.\" (p.89) Sal can't, or won't, let go, but she agrees to move to Thornhill's Point and gives Will five years to save enough money to move back to London. It's when they move to this piece of land that Will's fallen in love with, that trouble starts. Or rather, that Will becomes involved in trouble that's already started. The land may not have fences, houses or neat rows of planted vegetables, but it is still part of the Darug tribe's land. Conflict arises, but Will is not prone to violence and is more terrified of them than anything else. Over time, he comes to realise that they too are farmers and landowners, just with different methods. Still, he's not about to give up his piece of land to them, and his neighbours - among them a lowlife called Smasher Sullivan who keeps an Aboriginal woman chained up in his hut and who has brutal ideas of how to react to Aboriginal thievery - have stronger wills (ha ha) than he can stand up to. The resulting night of violence, terror, cruelty and death is one Will never fully recovers from. While Grenville doesn't present a Aboriginal perspective in this novel - the story is told fully from Will's point-of-view, in third person, so that we see things in the way he understands them with a shade of omniscient depth overlapping it - it is a story that sympathises, and empathises, with the Aboriginal peoples. It doesn't glamorous or mythologise them (not as far as I can see, anyway), but considering how many times previously the British had \"colonised\" other lands with equally disastrous consequences, it's pretty hard to fault the Aborigines for their own struggles to understand or welcome the newcomers. People on both sides reached out and sought understanding, but at its heart, The Secret River is about what happens when people don't take the trouble to understand each other, or wilfully shut their minds to learning from others. We see this still in effect today, not just between \"white Australia\" and the Aboriginals - whose knowledge and wisdom about this great and complex land we continue to ignore while we blindly wreck havoc - but between Palestinians and Israelis, between the religious extreme and the moderates, between upper and lower classes, between management and the people who actually do the work on the \"shop floor\". The Secret River speaks volumes in more ways than one precisely because we haven't learned anything, we haven't moved on, we haven't found the peace that we all crave. If my review today seems abnormally long and rambling, even for me, I must apologise: I've been teaching this novel and getting into some of the issues and ideas in it at depth. There's a lot more going on here than I've mentioned, of course, but hopefully I've given you the right kind of encouragement needed to pick up this book. Intelligent, well-written in a rather beautiful, poetic way that manages to maintain Will's simplistic, childlike naivet\u00e9, The Secret River opens one of those \"secret cupboards\" of Australian history and gives a voice to those caught up in things they barely comprehend, in an insightful, engaging way. I loved this book, in which violence comes out of gentleness with a dreamlike haze, as if those early settlers like Will can't quite believe in the magic, the mystery and the mayhem that surrounds them. A must-read for all. Read in April 2014. ...more This book was okay. It's probably a good enough introduction to colonial issues in Australia, but I was left feeling that the characters were just too flat. Even when the author tries to make the protagonist (Will Thornhill) reflect a little on his life circumstances, he doesn't get very far. As historically accurate as it may be, I was frustrated by a character who is pretty low on the totem pole in early 19th century London but forgets all about what it's like to literally be lorded over when This book was okay. It's probably a good enough introduction to colonial issues in Australia, but I was left feeling that the characters were just too flat. Even when the author tries to make the protagonist (Will Thornhill) reflect a little on his life circumstances, he doesn't get very far. As historically accurate as it may be, I was frustrated by a character who is pretty low on the totem pole in early 19th century London but forgets all about what it's like to literally be lorded over when trying to build a new life in Australia. I didn't find the storyline gripping at all - in fact, my mind kept wandering away from the story. The one thing that haunts me is the all-too-grisly image of the slaughter at the end, and how Will agreed to it in order to keep his wife in the (then) far reaches of the Outback despite her firm desire to move her young family to a safer place. She knew it was wrong for them to be there, but he got his way. Hey, all it takes is a little genocide! I was a little surprised to see that author Kate Grenville has accumulated so many awards. Someone pointed out to me that the last book I finished was Louise Erdrich's The Round House , which might be coloring my reception of this novel. I'll admit, it is hard to stand shoulder to shoulder with Louise Erdrich... particularly when taking on issues of conflict between European colonists and native peoples. ...more This book was like a good piece of toast - you appreciate it and enjoy it while you're consuming it, but you know that you're going to forget about it afterwards. It's not that it isn't a good story, or that the writing isn't capable - it's more that I was never fully engaged by either. The story follows an English man who is caught stealing and has his sentence commuted to exile in Australia in the 19th century. In Australia, the man and his family struggle with setting up a new life, finding t This book was like a good piece of toast - you appreciate it and enjoy it while you're consuming it, but you know that you're going to forget about it afterwards. It's not that it isn't a good story, or that the writing isn't capable - it's more that I was never fully engaged by either. The story follows an English man who is caught stealing and has his sentence commuted to exile in Australia in the 19th century. In Australia, the man and his family struggle with setting up a new life, finding themselves in a brimming conflict with the natives who already live on the land. The historical fiction element was the most interesting - Grenville provides a fascinating depiction of life in the early English colonies. She is also skilled at creating detailed imagery - I could almost see the richness of the Australian landscape around me. There is nothing ostensibly wrong with the book, I just don't think it will stand out in my literary memory. The main character is an unlikable hero, indecisive, passive and cowardly, but with moments of integrity, and I couldn't help feeling that sometimes he was a metaphor for the book. The Secret River almost gets there, but doesn't quite stretch out of the parameters of being just another okay book. ...more To say that I enjoyed this book would not, perhaps, be the most adequate description - but it was compelling enough to keep me reading into the early hours of the morning, although the subject matter was at times difficult. The book records the experiences of William Thornhill, reprieved from death on the gallows for a petty crime in London, he and his wife and baby are transported to Australia where they struggle to make a life for themselves. They eventually take possession of a parcel of land To say that I enjoyed this book would not, perhaps, be the most adequate description - but it was compelling enough to keep me reading into the early hours of the morning, although the subject matter was at times difficult. The book records the experiences of William Thornhill, reprieved from death on the gallows for a petty crime in London, he and his wife and baby are transported to Australia where they struggle to make a life for themselves. They eventually take possession of a parcel of land which they begin to farm. But whose land is it really? Does it belong to the settlers or does it belong to the aboriginal people - the 'blacks' as William and the other settlers call them? The sad part of the story is that the reader can sympathise with both the settlers and the native people. Right and wrong become blurred and every action has its consequences. Perhaps it's easier to read if you are not Australian, but I don't think so because similar things happened in many places and most wars today are fought over land. This is not a book that you can close with a sigh and a feeling of satisfaction that everything turned out well in the end. It is a book that leaves you feeling sad. But it is a book that I recommend you read. ...more This was historical fiction. I found some of this fascinating. In the early 1800's, England condemned criminals to death, (even for minor offenses). Then as a reprieve, they were granted life and shipped off to Sydney, Australia. And if they had a family that would then become a burden to England, they were shipped off too, but then given their husband as a slave to eek out some kind of living in the untamed area of Sydney. So, financially speaking, the government was off the hook. I liked the c This was historical fiction. I found some of this fascinating. In the early 1800's, England condemned criminals to death, (even for minor offenses). Then as a reprieve, they were granted life and shipped off to Sydney, Australia. And if they had a family that would then become a burden to England, they were shipped off too, but then given their husband as a slave to eek out some kind of living in the untamed area of Sydney. So, financially speaking, the government was off the hook. I liked the characters. The main relationship between husband and wife, was difficult at times. They both wanted 2 different things. They were both willing to endure hardships to get their way. The person who 'won' wasn't a surprise, but I enjoyed the journey. ...more It's been a long time since I'v been confronted by our history. Grenville did this for me with this book. I think every now and again we as Australians need a \"Secret River\". As tragic and harsh a time it was, this book had me going back and forth, my sympathies being divided between the Natives and the early settlers.I can't believe I waited this long to read this book. This is a type of book, where the more I think about it, the more I like it. William Thornhill grew up poor in England. His parents died when he was young leaving him to are for his younger siblings. He takes a job as an apprentice with his childhood friend, Sal's parents. He has always liked Sal and as he learns a trade and sleeps under the same roof with her he falls in love with her. At the end of his apprenticeship he and Sal marry. Her parents also pass away. Tragedy seems to follow them. W This is a type of book, where the more I think about it, the more I like it. William Thornhill grew up poor in England. His parents died when he was young leaving him to are for his younger siblings. He takes a job as an apprentice with his childhood friend, Sal's parents. He has always liked Sal and as he learns a trade and sleeps under the same roof with her he falls in love with her. At the end of his apprenticeship he and Sal marry. Her parents also pass away. Tragedy seems to follow them. With an infant and wife to care for, he begins a job and learns he does not make enough to care for everyone and steals some wood. He is sentenced to the penal colony of New South Wales. His wife and son go with him to Australia. When they dock, he sees his newborn son as his wife has given birth while on the voyage (they travel on different parts on the ship as he is a prisoner and she is not). After they arrive in Syndey they find a way to make it 50 miles north and William claims 100 acres as his. Sal does not like this new land, she is uncomfortable but promises her husband she will give it 5 years. During this time more children are born and Sal deals with loneliness and the hope that she will return home in 5 years time. In the every beginning of the Novel, William awakens to find a man standing in his hut - naked holding a spear. The man tells him \"Be off\". I liked the entire passage's description. I think it does a great job of showing how both the Aborigines and the colonists feel about each other. The Aborigines have always lived in that area, it was theirs, their children's. It is their home. Then comes in Colonists who proudly proclaim the land as theirs. Atrocities occur on both sides. Aborigines are mistreated. Colonists get speared. Sal and William hear the stories. They have contact with the Aborigines. Sal makes a trade with the women, her bonnet for their crude bowls. The Thornhills believe that they can live on this land without incident. They do not want to treat the native people as other colonist have done so. They refuse to take actions against them as their peers have done. They do not know what to make of the naked people. I like how William thought that the Aborigines in their nakedness and their way of life are more free than he has ever been in his life. This book also delves into what do good people do to protect what is theirs? Even though we hear Williams voice, I feel the Author did a good job showing us the plight of the Aborigine. It would have been nice to have more of that voice told; however. At what point does a good man, make the decision to act against his morals and values? By the end of the book, William is faced with that question. He wants to be successful in his life and to care for his family. Both sides feel entitled to the land. Neither side has anywhere else left to go. By the end of the book, this issue of land ownership comes to a head. The book began as a romance between William and Sal and ended with a struggle of survival. This is book has some disturbing scenes _ people poisoned by the \"green powder\", a woman kept as a sex slave, physical attacks, etc. ...more<---C>Kate Grenville</---C>", "Title": "The Secret River"},
