{"Comments": "If it weren't for the Soviet Union and the blood lust of the Russian communists, I would not exist. My parents were World War II refugees, on the run for their lives from Soviet-occupied Latvia. They arrived in the United States at about the same time, immigrants with nothing but what they wore on their backs, with the most skeletal English language skills. Had they not spotted each other across the room of immigrants and felt drawn one to the other, well, that would have been an entirely differ If it weren't for the Soviet Union and the blood lust of the Russian communists, I would not exist. My parents were World War II refugees, on the run for their lives from Soviet-occupied Latvia. They arrived in the United States at about the same time, immigrants with nothing but what they wore on their backs, with the most skeletal English language skills. Had they not spotted each other across the room of immigrants and felt drawn one to the other, well, that would have been an entirely different story, and without me in it. Even so, you won't hear gratitude from me. My existence does not by any measure outweigh the brutalities of Soviet power. A large percentage of the Latvian population was deported, tortured and executed under the communist regime. My life cannot measure up to such suffering of the multitudes. In later years, I traveled several times to the Soviet Union to see for myself this world that had so often been described to me, yet nonetheless remained and remains nearly incomprehensible. The experience of my travels behind the Iron Curtain is a memory that will never leave me. These are the memories and impressions returned to me with the reading of <---A>Tom Rob Smith</---A>'s debut novel, <+++>Child 44</+++>. Tom Rob Smith has taken his premise for <+++>Child 44</+++> from the true story of Russian serial murderer,<---M> Andrei Chikatilo</---M>, who murdered over 50 women and children in Russia during the 1980s. Although Smith has set his story in an earlier time period, the 1950s, he has not lost, but only gained levels of intrigue and suspense by choosing the worst years of Soviet oppression. The difference, the author explains, is that in the latter years, someone in open rebellion against the political system might lose an apartment, while in earlier years, it would have meant the loss of life. The story of Child 44 has the chill of historical and political accuracy. The author is still in his twenties at this writing, yet the combination of his research and already rich life and travel experience have given him the depth of insight required to bring this tale of Soviet horror vividly to life. I had to wonder, in fact, and quite often during my reading, how many readers less aware of Soviet history might construe this as mere fantasy. In too many ways, it is not. The sense of unraveling sanity and logic threaded throughout daily Soviet life is all too real: Black is declared white and white, black. What you see, you are told, is not what you see. What you know is not to be known.<---F> Deny everything</---F>. And in saving your own life, choose who will die among your loved ones. <---C>Leo Demidov</---C> is a key character, the communist detective pursuing the killer who cannot be named. The first insanity is that the Soviet government denies the existence of crime in its so-called utopian state. If life is perfection, why would anyone commit a crime? Crime, they claim, is an outgrowth of a capitalist society. And then, a crime so gruesome as to kill a child, ripping open his belly to expose his insides, stuffing his open mouth with bark and gravel. Yet such dead and tortured children's bodies appear throughout Soviet Russia, and despite the growing threat to his own safety, Demidov is determined to stop the child murderer. He cannot question witnesses, however, when there is no official crime to witness. He cannot conduct investigations when there is no official crime to investigate. To stop these murders, Demidov must become himself a criminal against the state. Such is Stalin's workers' paradise ... The stakes grow ever higher, as Demidov's loyalty to the state is tested when his wife is accused of being a spy. In spite of her innocence, Demidov is faced with calling the authorities liars by defending his wife--or handing over his innocent wife to be executed but show his loyalty to the state that does no wrong. A page-turner, indeed, but blood runs even colder when one knows this type of existence was all too real behind the Iron Curtain of the very real Soviet Union. Tom Rob Smith has my respect and admiration for putting into words what makes so little sense to the rational mind. I suggest supplemental reading in the form of Alexander Solzhenitsyn's Gulag Archipelago for the true history of this nightmarish world. ~Zinta Aistars for The Smoking Poet, Summer 2008 Issue ...more 3.5 stars Set at the end of Stalin's reign in 1953 this book was an eye opener for me. I just had no clue. Living in Russia at that time was when you lived in fear of that four a.m. arrest. Are you an enemy of the state? It didn't really matter if you were truly innocent, once you had been named you might as well kiss it good-bye. Leo Demidov is a former war hero who works for the MGB or state security force and had always done his job with no questioning of authority. There was a joke, popular am 3.5 stars Set at the end of Stalin's reign in 1953 this book was an eye opener for me. I just had no clue. Living in Russia at that time was when you lived in fear of that four a.m. arrest. Are you an enemy of the state? It didn't really matter if you were truly innocent, once you had been named you might as well kiss it good-bye. Leo Demidov is a former war hero who works for the MGB or state security force and had always done his job with no questioning of authority. There was a joke, popular among officers, who could tell it with impunity. A man and his wife were asleep in bed when they were woken by a sharp knock on the door. Fearing the worst, they got up and kissed each other goodbye: I love you, wife. I love you, husband. Having said their goodbyes they opened the front door. Standing before them was a frantic neighbor, a corridor full of smoke and flames as high as the ceiling. The man and his wife smiled with relief and thanked God: it was just the building on fire. Then when Leo is forced with an impossible choice he is demoted and sent to a distant out-breach. He and his wife Raisa must start a different kind of life. He then figures out there is a serial killer targeting children all over the place. This blows my mind but there was supposedly \"no crime\" so that fact must be covered up and innocent people suffered. At one point one hundred and fifty homosexual men are exposed and punished. Just because of their homosexuality. This book is gritty and violent but it was an awakening to a point in history that I will not forget. The writing in the book did distract me with all the conversations being done in italics but I still couldn't stop reading it. Then the ending was not what I really wanted thus the 3.5 stars, but I'm interested in reading the rest of this series. There is soon to be a movie based on this book starring Tom Hardy. I hope they do this book justice. ...more Rating: 4* of five The Book Report : In the Socialist Worker's Paradise that is Stalin's 1953 Russia, There Is No Crime. (Sorry, I know that all the caps are like having your lashes tweezed, but this is the Soviet Union we're talking about, and everything is A Slogan.) The proletariat is blissfully free of the Capitalist Curse Called Crime. They're more afraid of the State than they are each other. With good reason. There are traitors, informants, everywhere. Even in your own bed, you are never saf Rating: 4* of five The Book Report : In the Socialist Worker's Paradise that is Stalin's 1953 Russia, There Is No Crime. (Sorry, I know that all the caps are like having your lashes tweezed, but this is the Soviet Union we're talking about, and everything is A Slogan.) The proletariat is blissfully free of the Capitalist Curse Called Crime. They're more afraid of the State than they are each other. With good reason. There are traitors, informants, everywhere. Even in your own bed, you are never safe from the danger of being outed as a bad Socialist with the least, most offhand criticism of the Paradise. And death comes, whether quickly or slowly, to those whom the Cthulhu of the State Security apparatus notices. Leo Demidov, then, shouldn't have a job as a criminal investigator. In fact, he doesn't. He's a well-rewarded apparatchik who, in the course of interrogating his fellow citizens, notices a disturbing pattern of murders...which do not officially exist...taking place with no effort, or a completely inadequate effort, being made to see the forest for the trees. Leo's life changes, from privileged servant of the regime to lone wolf investigator to vengeful assassin, over the course of the story. His solution to the crimes being committed is chilling in its outlines and satisfying in its conclusion. My Review : I don't believe I've ever read so much text in italics before, and I don't think I've ever read a thriller with so little direct action before, either. The dialogue, what little there is of it, is italicized; there are few places where anyone addresses anyone else for more than a sentence or two. Husband Leo and wife Raisa have one--that's all, one--intimate conversation, which is a new low count in my thriller reading. But what a wallop this book packs! I can't imagine the agonies of researching and writing such a grisly book, given that most writers are sensitive flowers whose emotional lives are very much up on the surface of their lives. Tom Rob Smith wrote this awful book about awful people doing awful things in an awful country to amuse and entertain us. He succeeds in this, though sometimes I wanted to wash my eyes out with Clorox. The main character, Leo, is a nasty apparatchik in the State Security forces under Stalin. He's a man who has put his sense of rightness, fairness and justice into the hands of vile, unworthy leaders, and turned off his moral compass. The reasons that it turns back on, and the results of Leo's single-minded pursuit of a child murderer, are...gosh...they're *right* and yet, given the 400pp we've spent being plunged into foul, icy sewage, again and again, they're weak tea. Leo's past leads him to a future that I can't call bright, but at least he's able to do the right thing sometimes. I don't think this book is for everyone, but I think it's really, really interesting and quite exciting and well worth the attention of the non-squeamish. This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 3.0 Unported License . ...more 4+ Stars Right from the start, Tom Rob Smith introduces us to an inhumane existence of starvation and brutality under Stalin's rule. You can trust no one.....no one. Life is Fear. Life is Torture. Innocence does not matter. Life is a matter of Efficiency, more important than Truth. And while living the unimaginable, there is a mysterious child killer on the loose that Security Officer, Leo Demidov is determined to stop, even after his demotion, even after mind altering drugs, even when he is on t 4+ Stars Right from the start, Tom Rob Smith introduces us to an inhumane existence of starvation and brutality under Stalin's rule. You can trust no one.....no one. Life is Fear. Life is Torture. Innocence does not matter. Life is a matter of Efficiency, more important than Truth. And while living the unimaginable, there is a mysterious child killer on the loose that Security Officer, Leo Demidov is determined to stop, even after his demotion, even after mind altering drugs, even when he is on the run, and even to the detriment of his own life and family. Clues lead to a place difficult to go, but where answers are found. Great mystery filled with secrets, intrigue and more than one twist along the way....plus a few gross-out moments! Recommend! Update: September 26, 2015 Watched the movie and all I can say is that I wish I would have spent the two plus hours reading. If I had not read the novel, I would not have understood half of what was transpiring before my eyes. Do not recommend. ...more Child 44 is one of the best books I\u2019ve read all year. So of course while I was reading, I wanted to tell everybody about it, shout it to the rooftops, fighting the urge to send a recommendation to all my good GR buddies. One of the reasons I didn\u2019t was because I realized that while I was riveted, this book is definitely not for everyone. It\u2019s grim and gristly, and there are a couple of scenes that are like a punch to the gut. In fact, the beginning almost reads like a horror novel. It\u2019s a thrill Child 44 is one of the best books I\u2019ve read all year. So of course while I was reading, I wanted to tell everybody about it, shout it to the rooftops, fighting the urge to send a recommendation to all my good GR buddies. One of the reasons I didn\u2019t was because I realized that while I was riveted, this book is definitely not for everyone. It\u2019s grim and gristly, and there are a couple of scenes that are like a punch to the gut. In fact, the beginning almost reads like a horror novel. It\u2019s a thriller though\u2026a very good thriller. Tom Rob Smith creates this nightmarish, claustrophobic world of mistrust and fear that made me feel like I had been thrown into a horrible dystopia. Moscow during the time of Stalin was brutal, and I think the realization that these atrocities really happened is what grabs you. I\u2019ve read reviews from people that lived in Russia who criticize that Smith gets it wrong and his world is about as subtle as a brick to the head. But since this is fiction, I didn\u2019t mind that. I was so completely engulfed in the paranoia along with the characters that I loved it. The basic story is about a murderer traveling around Russia slaughtering children (based off a true story). But instead of trying to catch the killer, the State wants to push it under the rug. You see it doesn\u2019t look good if there is an unsolved crime. Consequently, for an officer of the Militia to honestly try to fight crime is very dangerous. In many ways the story is a lot like The Hangman's Daughter . But where \u2018Hangman\u2019s Daughter\u2019 was boring, Child 44 is almost impossible to set down. That\u2019s because Smith pulls you into his gritty world. His characters are not modern, enlightened individuals that are better than everyone else. They are part of this society, with their own fears and rationalizations. Leo is a cold-blooded police officer who only decides to make a stand because he\u2019s forced into it. I liked that. I like the journey that Leo has to take. And to my surprise, the suspense for Child 44 does not come from endless action scenes. It comes from the anticipation that the State can and does horrible things to innocent people all the time. What is going to happen to Leo? What will happen to his wife, his parents and anyone that helps him? I think through a good portion of this book, I was clutching the pages. Some reviews complain that Smith\u2019s writing is too simplistic and choppy, but I was so into the story, I didn\u2019t notice. I didn\u2019t even mind that he didn\u2019t use quotation marks or tags (a usual writing complaint of mine). There\u2019s a strong premise in this book about what it means to throw others under the bus to preserve the peace. The rationalization of \u2018the needs of the many outweigh the needs of the few\u2019 (as Spock would say) changes a bit when it\u2019s used as an excuse for the arrest and conviction of innocent people, especially if you are one of those innocent people. Smith never forgets his premise either. That\u2019s why the book ended the way it did. The premise had to have a full arc. And while I appreciate a strong underlining theme, I\u2019m not sure the pessimist in me believed it. The ending was a little bit too pat and easy, consequently making it the weakest part of the book. But how much gloom and doom can a reader take? I think Child 44 is excellent! I give it six stars! I will definitely read book 2. For an awesome review of this book, please check out Steve's review: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show... ...more Smith offers a look into the Soviet Union of 1953, a dark, desperate place in which the state had become a manifestation of Stalin\u2019s paranoia. The ideological need of the state to present the communist ideal as an actualized reality impaired its ability, its willingness to address bad things when they happened, for surely, in this workers\u2019 paradise, such things would never happen. Things like serial killers, things like crime of any sort. Thus all crime is ideological and all criminals are enemi Smith offers a look into the Soviet Union of 1953, a dark, desperate place in which the state had become a manifestation of Stalin\u2019s paranoia. The ideological need of the state to present the communist ideal as an actualized reality impaired its ability, its willingness to address bad things when they happened, for surely, in this workers\u2019 paradise, such things would never happen. Things like serial killers, things like crime of any sort. Thus all crime is ideological and all criminals are enemies of the state. This is not a family trip to DisneyWorld. Leo is a member of the MGB, state security, and has spent his adult life doing what he has been told to do, doing what is expected, whether it is drinking the ideological Kool-Aid or rousting suspected traitors at 4 in the morning for a nifty round of torture before they are disappeared. Life is ok for him, professionally respected, married to a beautiful woman, able to access for his family goods and services not available to the less connected in this classless society. But when a child is found murdered in Moscow, the child of a fellow MGB officer, and when he treats this crime the way he would any other, he is redirected from his safe path to a dangerous route, pushed along by a jealous work competitor. The big secret in Smith\u2019s tale is not that tough to figure out, but the up-side of this fast-paced thriller is the depiction of a stalag-Soviet. The characters are sometimes thin, but Child 44 does not pretend to be classic literature. Leo changes, as do some around him and we get a roller-coaster ride through a scary, dark place, learning things we might not have known about in an important time and place. An entertaining and gripping read. Here is a link to the film site - release date 4/17/15 ...more I would like to rate it 4.5 but alas I don't have that option. Let me begin by saying that this book has exceeded my expectations. Personally, I would say that it is a tad better than Gorky Park - an excellent book about a Soviet policeman. The atmosphere of fear, desperation, tension, suspense has been used so effectively by the author. The start itself is so chilling - it is 1933 and we visit the village of Chervoy, Ukraine - then a part of the Soviet Union. Lack of food has reduced humans to ea I would like to rate it 4.5 but alas I don't have that option. Let me begin by saying that this book has exceeded my expectations. Personally, I would say that it is a tad better than Gorky Park - an excellent book about a Soviet policeman. The atmosphere of fear, desperation, tension, suspense has been used so effectively by the author. The start itself is so chilling - it is 1933 and we visit the village of Chervoy, Ukraine - then a part of the Soviet Union. Lack of food has reduced humans to eating their pets and further degradation is portrayed when people try to eat earth. In such a setting, two little boys- two brothers set out to hunt a cat while their mother waits for them at home. Then of course, something terrible happens. Twenty years later we move to Moscow where a child's horrific murder is being brushed under the carpet by the Stalinist regime. Crime does not exist in the Soviet Union. The man tasked with bringing the grieving family in line with the state's theory of accident is Leo Demidiv of the MGB, the State Security Force. Like Arkady Renko of Gorky Park and Xavier March of Fatherland , Leo is a decent human being. But, there is a big difference between Leo and the others \u2013 unlike Renko and March, Leo is a true believer in the state. He is dedicated to his country and the cause espoused by the state. Leo will kill and die for it. The horrors of living under a totalitarian regime has been emphatically stressed throughout the book. A mere slip of tongue, a silly joke, a mere suspicion is enough for a person to be executed or may be worse \u2013 be exiled to the Gulag. The person needs to prove his loyalty to the state, the state does not need to prove the accused person\u2019s guilt. Torture and forced confessions are the accepted norms of interrogation. \u201cBarbarity passes off as necessity for the greater good.\u201d The policy of the state \u2013 \u201cBetter to let ten innocent men suffer than one spy escape.\u201d Leo, in his heart, was never that comfortable with the terrors inflicted on the so called \u201cenemies of the state.\u201d Leo, becomes a victim of the state too. All his beliefs, values, accomplishments go for a toss. He is demoted and sent off in the middle of nowhere. Here starts Leo\u2019s investigations into the horrific murders of children. Though this is a serial killer novel, the state emerges as the bigger villain than the killer. Leo risks his life as well as the lives of his loved ones in order to expose the killer. The risk is not from the killer but from the state itself as crime does not exist in Soviet Russia and people trying to prove so are Western agents- enemies of the glorious revolution. Leo and his wife Raisa try to catch and punish the killer and are helped by a lot of kind-hearted people, some prisoners themselves while others are complete strangers \u2013 humble citizens of the USSR. There are plenty of events and twists which would make you tense, afraid, excited etc. Do we really know and understand the people whom we love? People try to forget things which make them uncomfortable. I loved the way the relationship between Leo and Raisa evolved. The book, parts of the book at least were so faced paced that I did not realize how time went by. Saying I am looking forward to the next books in the series is an understatement \u2013 I simply can\u2019t wait to get my hands on them. I would recommend this book to all lovers of thrillers \u2013 but please keep in mind the book can be a bit depressing. There are descriptions of acute starvation and the inhuman behaviors that result from it, horrific brutality inflicted on children \u2013 if you don\u2019t mind all these then this book won\u2019t disappoint. ...more Child 44 is one of those books that only come along once in awhile and when it does it makes you exclaim out loud. This novel draws you into the story, the characters are very well drawn and the plot is excellent, one of those book that you just cant put down, I loved this thriller/murder mystery book, it is set in the Soviet Union during Stalin's rule and is loosely based on real life killer Andrei Chikatilo and follows the story through the eyes of Leo Dimidov, the government agent who is tryi Child 44 is one of those books that only come along once in awhile and when it does it makes you exclaim out loud. This novel draws you into the story, the characters are very well drawn and the plot is excellent, one of those book that you just cant put down, I loved this thriller/murder mystery book, it is set in the Soviet Union during Stalin's rule and is loosely based on real life killer Andrei Chikatilo and follows the story through the eyes of Leo Dimidov, the government agent who is trying to solve the murders committed by Andrei Chikatilo. Its a book not for the faint hearted but a real page turner. ...more Child 44 is a novel that's hard to figure out where to place on the bookshelf. It's a political thriller, a murder mystery and a horror story all in one. Combining those elements alone would have been enough, but first-time novelist Tom Rob Smith takes is further, setting his story around the time of the death of Stalin in the former Soviet Union. Smith recreates the atmosphere of paranoia, doubt and suspicion of the time and place with ease, adding an extra layer of tension to his story. On the Child 44 is a novel that's hard to figure out where to place on the bookshelf. It's a political thriller, a murder mystery and a horror story all in one. Combining those elements alone would have been enough, but first-time novelist Tom Rob Smith takes is further, setting his story around the time of the death of Stalin in the former Soviet Union. Smith recreates the atmosphere of paranoia, doubt and suspicion of the time and place with ease, adding an extra layer of tension to his story. On the surface, a story about someone serial killing small children would be brutal and horrifying enough. But add in that under the Soviet system that the government was creating a worker's paradise in which crime can't and shouldn't exist and you get a further twist on the serial hunter genre. If there is no crime, then surely such brutal crimes can't be occurring, adding to the complications as our hero, Leo, investigates the killings. And it's not that Leo doesn't have more than a few obstacles in his way. He starts the novel as high-ranking official in the MGB, a rising star whose job it is to find all those who are oppose Mother Russia. Along the way, he's had successes and has made enemies, including one who sets him up. Leo is forced to choose between betraying his wife, who is accused of being a spy, to save his own skin or siding with her. Leo makes the choice and his entire world shatters. He's humilated publically, his family's status is removed and he finds out that his romantic notions of his marriage are an illusion. Demoted and sent to a remote region as the lowest of the low in the police, Leo comes across evidence that an earlier crime he investigated may tie into killings in the region. Leo risks everything to investigate the crime. Smith's novel is compelling and page-turning. Smith is an aspiring screen-writer and there are moments in the story that he paints scenes in a movie-like way. But to dismiss the novel as one of those \"ready to be adapted for a movie\" would be a mistake. Smith's ability to re-create Russia in the time of Stalin is compelling as are the characters of Leo and his family. There are horrors here and not just those committed by the serial killer. Leo is certainly no innocent victim and yet, you will find yourself rooting for him as the pages go on. (He's not the most likeable character when you first meet him). A great debut by Smith and I can see why this has already been optioned for a big-screen adaption. But I will recommend that this is one of those cases where you will definitely want to read the book first. ...more Originally posted on The Book Nympho The story is set in 1953 Russia, shortly before the end of Joseph Stalin's reign of terror. There's evidence of a possible serial killer at large but one of the propaganda \"truths\" is that Russia is crime free. Leo Demidov, a member of the powerful and feared MGB (predecessor of the KGB), is sent to investigate one of the murders but is instructed to classify it as an accident. It sets off a chain of events that will forever change the man and his life. I was Originally posted on The Book Nympho The story is set in 1953 Russia, shortly before the end of Joseph Stalin's reign of terror. There's evidence of a possible serial killer at large but one of the propaganda \"truths\" is that Russia is crime free. Leo Demidov, a member of the powerful and feared MGB (predecessor of the KGB), is sent to investigate one of the murders but is instructed to classify it as an accident. It sets off a chain of events that will forever change the man and his life. I was mesmerized by this story as it offered a glimpse into an era I knew little about but is important as it provides insight into the probable foundation of current Russian culture. Part mystery and part historical fiction, the storytelling aspect is outstanding. While Leo is the main character and most everything is seen through his point of view, that view transforms as everything he's believed in and been a part of begins to unravel as it turns on him. To challenge any of the government positions often means certain death so Leo's change doesn't happen without consequence. The setting represents one of the most important in world history where millions of the so-called \"enemies of the Soviet people\" were imprisoned, exiled or executed. I've known the facts of the era but this story provided more clarity of how a system designed to provide social and economic equality could go so horribly awry. Leo is at times unsympathetic and at others heroic. The story has an emotional punch I hadn't expected and the narrator just nails everything. I highly recommend listening to this book as it contributes to its authentic sense. 4.5 stars ...more For decades no one had taken action according to what they believed was right or wrong but by what they thought would please the leader. I thought this book was riveting. I couldn't believe it was Tom Rob Smith 's debut novel. I especially appreciated how the he combined two genre's (historical fiction and mystery)seamlessly. He painted such an incredibly vivid picture of Stalin's Soviet Union in the 1950's you could really feel the terror, fear and cruelty of a whole country. Friends and family d For decades no one had taken action according to what they believed was right or wrong but by what they thought would please the leader. I thought this book was riveting. I couldn't believe it was Tom Rob Smith 's debut novel. I especially appreciated how the he combined two genre's (historical fiction and mystery)seamlessly. He painted such an incredibly vivid picture of Stalin's Soviet Union in the 1950's you could really feel the terror, fear and cruelty of a whole country. Friends and family denounced each other, to deflect any unwelcome attention from themselves. Once you fell under suspicion, there was no turning back. The government functioned on a presumption of guilt. As the author so aptly says - The headquarters of the MGB was an assembly line of guilt. Another change for me in Child 44 was that the protagonist was an MGB agent. Most of the other war/genocide books I've read was presented from the viewpoint of the suppressed/victims. The author even delves into the various motivations why different people would fulfill these brutal roles. Was the difference merely that Vasili was senselessly cruel while he'd been idealistically cruel? One was an empty, indifferent cruelty while the other was a principles, pretentious cruelty which thought of itself as reasonable and necessary. But in real terms, in destructive terms, there was little to separate the two men. All of the above is just the background for the mystery element of the novel. As the state decreed that there was no crime, this was the ideal environment for a murderer. The story itself is loosely based on the serial killer, Andrei Chikatilo. It is fast-paced and shocking, I found myself gasping out loud quite a few times. Some of the scenes are very upsetting and this is not for sensitive readers. My only negative is that the ending was a bit too well wrapped up. The Story: Officer Leo Demidov, an idealistic war hero, believes he's building a perfect society. But after witnessing the interrogation of an innocent man, his loyalty begins to waver, and when ordered to investigate his own wife Leo is forced to choose where his heart truly lies. He must risk everything to find a criminal that the State won't admit even exists. On the run, Leo soon discovers the danger isn't from the killer he is trying to catch, but from the country he is trying to protect. ...more 23.12.2015: Re-visit via the film Had binned this but after such glowing reviews by trusted friends it went back on the shelves. Read by Dennis Boutsikaris Excellent mid three. #87 TBR Busting 2013 NEWS 15:04:2015 - Hollywood's Child 44 pulled in Russia after falling foul of culture ministry: Fears of censorship in Russia as Ridley Scott film about serial killer, starring Gary Oldman, withdrawn over \u2018distortion of facts and interpretation of events\u2019. Source Desperately Hunting Child Killer With Bear's Hot Breath on Da Bum 4.5 An intense thriller that places the reader dead center into the gloom and dread of Stalin's Soviet Union. The hero police detective Leo Demidov desperately searches for a murderer (who came to be known as the Rostov Ripper, found to have committed 52 murders of children up and down a railway line), all while Demidov operates one step ahead of the breath-quickening bear jaws of the KGB that seeks to enforce as truth the propagand Desperately Hunting Child Killer With Bear's Hot Breath on Da Bum 4.5 An intense thriller that places the reader dead center into the gloom and dread of Stalin's Soviet Union. The hero police detective Leo Demidov desperately searches for a murderer (who came to be known as the Rostov Ripper, found to have committed 52 murders of children up and down a railway line), all while Demidov operates one step ahead of the breath-quickening bear jaws of the KGB that seeks to enforce as truth the propaganda that there are NO murders committed in a utopian communist society. This is a well-written, brilliantly plotted police procedural, embodying the horrors of life for, and trying to save the lives of children by, the good guys under the awful, oppressive, murderous Stalin regime. ...more 4\u2605 I was in the mood for a thriller and picked this up based on GR friends reviews. It did not disappoint. A page turner perfect for a couple of cold rainy days with nothing interesting on TV. The author takes us back to the post-war 1950\u2019s reworking the true story of a Russian serial killer. First of a trilogy that did not leave the reader hanging.Yay! It did not have quite the punch of I Am Pilgrim which I read earlier in the year, but it was not as far fetched either, more authentic with great 4\u2605 I was in the mood for a thriller and picked this up based on GR friends reviews. It did not disappoint. A page turner perfect for a couple of cold rainy days with nothing interesting on TV. The author takes us back to the post-war 1950\u2019s reworking the true story of a Russian serial killer. First of a trilogy that did not leave the reader hanging.Yay! It did not have quite the punch of I Am Pilgrim which I read earlier in the year, but it was not as far fetched either, more authentic with great pacing. You know what I\u2019m talking about. This is not Mission Impossible whatever with guys impossibly hanging off of skyscrapers. Too bad they messed up the movie version, apparently, but I\u2019ll give it a try anyway just to see the characters brought to life (or death). Additionally, I was able to drink my wine and follow along with no problem keeping the story straight or character mix-ups. A straight forward GoodRead. ...more The body of a little boy was discovered along the railway tracks in th city of Moscow, violently mutilated. Leo Demidov, a dedicated MGB officer was ordered by his superiors to tell the grieving family that their boy\u2019s death was an unfortunate accident. The boy\u2019s family were not convinced. Soon after Leo\u2019s loyalty to the MGB were tested. And as a result, he was demoted and sent off to work with the Militia in an industrial village called Voualsk where another body of a child was found. Without a The body of a little boy was discovered along the railway tracks in th city of Moscow, violently mutilated. Leo Demidov, a dedicated MGB officer was ordered by his superiors to tell the grieving family that their boy\u2019s death was an unfortunate accident. The boy\u2019s family were not convinced. Soon after Leo\u2019s loyalty to the MGB were tested. And as a result, he was demoted and sent off to work with the Militia in an industrial village called Voualsk where another body of a child was found. Without a thorough investigation, the head of Voualsk\u2019s Militia arrested a simple-minded young man for the murder (an easy target), and put it down to a one off incident. Leo is starting to think otherwise. There were too many similarities between in the 2 deaths to be a one off incident; the manner in which body was discovered were the same, including the injuries suffered. With the help of his wife and a few locals in connecting villages, Leo conducts his own investigation. And what he finds is more horrific then he imagined! A total of 44 deaths - all children, dumped along the railway track, stripped, cut, and laid out...all in the same manner. And total of 44 crimes covered up by their own government. Child 44 is set in 1953 under horrendous era of Stalin\u2019s reign where they believe that crime doesn\u2019t exists \u2013 hence the reason why the killer went undetected for so long. The crime in Child 44 is not the sole highlight in this book. The reader gets extensive insight into lives of Russians during this era; struggling to survive under the strict and unforgiving rules, and the lack of adequate housing and basic infrastructure. It\u2019s also a fascinating portrayal of a society living in constant paranoia, stress and fear of a government should be protecting them and their children, not the killers. Paranoid that their own family, friends or neighbours can turn against them in a split second to save their own back from government threats and bullying. Fear to even speak in public or to be noticed, as anything they say or do could be misinterpreted as a comment or behaviour against Stalin. Leo Demidov is such an interesting, strong character. Not your average likable hero to begin with. He starts out as an officer who's responsible for the deaths of many innocent victims, and destroyed equally as many families along the way, because of his dedication and trust in the Stalin way. His wife hated him and to be honest I wasn\u2019t too fond of him either \u2013 cold-hearted bastard to say the least! He did somewhat redeem himself as the story progress. I really liked witnessing this unexpected change in manner, and the growing relationship between Leo and his wife. I wanted to read this book so desperately before I saw movie adaption. And what a book it is! The plot was purely engrossing, suspenseful and brutally violent at times by the nature of the killings. A sense of danger and darkness looms heavily over this book as Leo and his wife risk their lives from sheer determination to catch the killer, while being watched and on the run from MGB. The wet, icy cold backdrop, merged with tension, drama, love and corruption. It really does have all. Terrific read. ...more Dinami\u010dna, uzbudljiva knjiga koja se ne ispu\u0161ta iz ruku (bukvalno :D) Da nije bilo par nelogi\u010dnosti u samoj radnji, i previ\u0161e lakih i na brzinu smi\u0161ljenih re\u0161enja odre\u0111enih situacija, bila bi i odli\u010dna. Ovako, ocena koju realno zaslu\u017euje je: vrlo dobar 4. A very long time ago and far away, I used to starve myself. On purpose. I had this idea I would transform into a super model. Instead, one day I scratched my arm and tore my skin off. Taking a deep breath, I almost broke ribs, but as it turned out, I simply pulled rib muscles. True story. Going without food is terrible. It does awful things to your body, not just to your mind. 'Child 44' opens in a small Ukraine village in 1933. The entire Soviet Union, but mostly the Ukraine, under the dictator A very long time ago and far away, I used to starve myself. On purpose. I had this idea I would transform into a super model. Instead, one day I scratched my arm and tore my skin off. Taking a deep breath, I almost broke ribs, but as it turned out, I simply pulled rib muscles. True story. Going without food is terrible. It does awful things to your body, not just to your mind. 'Child 44' opens in a small Ukraine village in 1933. The entire Soviet Union, but mostly the Ukraine, under the dictatorial hand of the mass murderer Joseph Stalin (1878-1953), is starving, much as Stalin himself did as a child. \"Under Stalin's rule the concept of \"Socialism in One Country\" became a central tenet of Soviet society, contrary to Leon Trotsky's view that socialism must be spread through continuous international revolutions. He replaced the New Economic Policy introduced by Lenin in the early 1920s with a highly centralized command economy, launching a period of industrialization and collectivization that resulted in the rapid transformation of the USSR from an agrarian society into an industrial power. The economic changes coincided with the imprisonment of millions of people in Gulag labour camps. The initial upheaval in agriculture disrupted food production and contributed to the catastrophic Soviet famine of 1932\u201333, known in Ukraine as the Holodomor. Between 1934 and 1939 he organized and led the \"Great Purge\", a massive campaign of repression of the party, government, armed forces and intelligentsia, in which millions of so-called \"enemies of the working class\" were imprisoned, exiled or executed, often without due process. Major figures in the Communist Party and government, and many Red Army high commanders, were killed after being convicted of treason in show trial.\" from Wikipedia. https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Josep... \"The exact number of deaths caused by Stalin's regime is still a subject of debate, but it is widely agreed to be in the order of millions.\" \"The Holodomor famine is sometimes referred to as the Ukrainian Genocide, implying it was engineered by the Soviet government, specifically targeting the Ukrainian people to destroy the Ukrainian nation as a political factor and social entity. While historians continue to disagree whether the policies that led to Holodomor fall under the legal definition of genocide, twenty-six countries have officially recognized the Holodomor as such...It would appear that Stalin intended to use the starvation as a cheap and efficient means (as opposed to deportations and shootings) to kill off those deemed to be \"counterrevolutionaries,\" \"idlers,\" and \"thieves,\" but not to annihilate the Ukrainian peasantry as a whole. Ellman also claims that, while this was not the only Soviet genocide (e.g., the Polish operation of the NKVD), it was the worst in terms of mass casualties.\" from Wikipedia. Ten-year-old Ukrainian Pavel and his brother, seven-year-old nearsighted Andrei, are starving. It is 1933, and their village thinks it has eaten all of the rats and cats. People are chewing bark to kill the hunger. Luckily, one day the boys see what must be the last surviving cat. So they run after the single remaining cat which has slinked off into the forest. Unknown to the boys, someone is hunting them. The children are thin, but they have on their bones good meat in the eyes of the starving, whether man or beast. The desperate hungry man following the children gets ready with his club and sack... In Moscow, twenty years later, four-year-old Arkady is angry with his older brother, Jora. Jora cheated, throwing a snowball full of rocks and mud which knocks out one of Arkady's teeth. Disbelieving and hurt, Arkady runs off towards the train yard - and he becomes a key to a mystery. The 44th key. Arkady's body is discovered, unclothed, gutted and with his mouth full of chewed bark. The Soviet Union does not, cannot, accept this. Communism is a perfect system of economics and social organization, and under Communism, nobody can possibly want to murder anyone. The Soviet people have all been remolded by the Great Leader Stalin into a perfect society where all necessities are met; so if there has been a death, it must be an accident and anyone who speaks of the actual condition of the body must be convinced of their error of their perceptions. Leo Stepanovich Demidov, a member of the MGB, the State Security force, has come to investigate the child's death. Well, gentle reader, 'investigate' is perhaps the wrong word, since Leo's job is to track down social anomalies and force witnesses to retract any statements marring the picture of the perfection of Communist society. These folks who insist on deviant attitudes towards Communism and its perfection, after being made to confess their errors in seeing reality for the record, and who are then tortured for any information about friends, neighbors and work friends who might also be in error regarding the perfection of Communism and Stalin, are then shot or sent by train to the gulags. Since they may have contaminated their families, all grandparents, children and other near relatives are also arrested, tortured and imprisoned, just in case. Leo is good at his job. He has a talent for hunting, and he, at age 30, is respected by his superiors. He actually has been rewarded with a small apartment for himself and his wife, a survivor of the last war, and he has a bit more food available to him than most. Although he lives with unending anxiety, mostly because no one around him seems to live very long without being accused and arrested for errors of either thinking incorrectly, or acting as if they are thinking incorrectly, Leo is a absolute believer in Stalin and Communism. At least, he was. Lately, he has been noticing torture creates factual inconsistencies, and there seems to be excessive killing and torture of obviously innocent and worthy citizens. Reports are concocted with standard boilerplate instead of facts. Not trusting anyone, including your parents, wife or child, is an awful way to live, especially in having to monitor even minute movements of body language. It is very wearing. However, even though Leo has discovered one can be a perfect Communist under Stalin's leadership and still be accused, tortured and shot, which is confusing and surprisingly, terrifying to him, he believes in the theories of Communism and in the hope of remolding people into something better in the end. They all just need to concentrate on the Big Picture for the common good and change themselves, eliminating their obstinate personal physical desires and motivations, like for food, warmth and love. But Leo is given two cases which together shake his faith. In forcing Arkady's family to say the little boy was hit by a train and not murdered, and in the second case when tracking a 'criminal' of the state, someone suspected of errors of infected thought from contact with foreigners, results in executions which shake him to his core. He experiences a mental dissonance, and Leo can no longer ignore his doubts. An MGB competitor takes advantage and reports him for suspicion of being a dissident. Although he is cleared by heroic actions in the capture of the runaway criminal, he is demoted anyway because he may yet possess possible philosophical deviations, which means he might be a spy according to the Marxist-based writ, slogans and rote of Stalin's rules (any suspicion is enough proof), so Leo and his wife Raisa are sent away to serve in an impoverished starving village militia. In the Ural Mountain village, Voualsk, a child is discovered murdered in the forest, being gutted with chewed bark in her mouth. Impossible, but there it is. Leo finds he is driven to find the murderer, now that his barriers against improper thinking have cracked. Luckily, he finds allies and with their help, he figures out there have been at least 44 murders of children by one man. But mistakes are made, and under the police mechanisms of the Soviet Union his suspicious activities are spotted. The official network of the State cannot allow him to find such a person as a murderer under Communism, because murderers are an impossibility in the Soviet Union. If Leo discovers an actual murderer, it is Leo who must be executed for his knowledge. Nonetheless, he can't let it go. People are going to die, and not the guilty. Will Leo be arrested before he can find the childkiller? Wow! This is the best thriller I have read this year! It is the type of thriller which I had to put down frequently, though, gentle reader. It is THAT kind of good. Stalin's Soviet Union is described in vividly stifling and claustrophobic horror. The state-sanctioned punishments and intended consequences for destroying anything remotely natural in human behavior are historical fact. The author studied historical documents and read interviews given by Soviet citizens to use as background for this incredible mystery. The murderer is also based on historical fact! https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Andre... Unfortunately, so was the world of the Soviet Union. Beginning with Karl Marx: Karl Marx (1818-1883), grandson of Jewish rabbis, joined socialist societies, wrote articles for newspapers, and wrote first and second drafts of books which would make him an influential historical figure while starving in England. He came from money, but his views on labor and capitalism made him a pariah to many European monarchs and governments, so on the run for most of his youth, he finally settled in London. Several of his children died from poor health developed after starving in London. \"Marx has been described as one of the most influential figures in human history, and his work has been both lauded and criticized. His work in economics laid the basis for much of the current understanding of labour and its relation to capital, and subsequent economic thought. Many intellectuals, labour unions, artists and political parties worldwide have been influenced by Marx's work, with many modifying or adapting his ideas. Marx is typically cited as one of the principal architects of modern sociology and social science\" (from Wikipedia) https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Karl_... Marx was a deep-thinking intellectual, whose interest mainly was in alleviating economic inequality. At the time, many of his ideas were also being expressed by other intellectuals, but his books pulling together all of the untried economic ideas plus adding his own unique thought caught fire with those of the public concerned with the huge gaps in opportunity and wealth between social classes. Anyone who reads his most famous books, The Communist Manifesto and Das Kapital will see how attractive these theories were to the starving poor (and me, frankly, years ago) as well as intellectuals. However, they have proven disastrous when practiced, mostly because they do not take into consideration human nature itself. As Dr. Moreau in H. G. Wells The Island of Dr. Moreau discovered, the animal flesh persists. Stalin may have honestly believed in Communism, but he also was a psychopath, in my opinion. He twisted Marxist principles into something monstrous which satisfied his personal hunger for killing and torture more than fixing society. Looking at the results of Stalin's social reengineering in the Soviet Union, it was as if he wanted to recreate a society which mirrored the abused starved childhood he had had, treating his countrymen the same way he had been raised. Regardless, Communist states have proven themselves as the most cruel of the systems of governance people invented. 'Child 44' brings to the foreground what living under Stalin, and Communism, must have actually been like, an awful reality if true, and I believe it was true, very like the novel. Omg, was this book painful to read, despite the thriller elements. But worth it. I recommend it. Edit: If one requires further validation of the veracity of the author's research, here it is: https://www.theguardian.com/world/201... ...more Wow! I finally broke down and added this one due to the high level of great reviews from my GR friends. I'm SO glad that I did!! This is a book that I couldn't get through fast enough. Set in the 1950s, Stalinistic Russia where friends and neighbors are turning each other into the police for ANY suspicious activity or anti-Communist sentiment. The chapters left you hanging for more. I constantly was like \"Just one more chapter...\" the twists were good and at one point I actually gasped out loud! Wow! I finally broke down and added this one due to the high level of great reviews from my GR friends. I'm SO glad that I did!! This is a book that I couldn't get through fast enough. Set in the 1950s, Stalinistic Russia where friends and neighbors are turning each other into the police for ANY suspicious activity or anti-Communist sentiment. The chapters left you hanging for more. I constantly was like \"Just one more chapter...\" the twists were good and at one point I actually gasped out loud! Cannot wait to read the rest of this trilogy! Also, hard to believe that this was the author's first book! Very impressed. ...more This well-written book reminded me of Martin Cruz Smith's Arkady Renko series, and a movie based on the true story of a Soviet era serial killer called Citizen X. The detail about living in the 1950's Soviet Union is very convincing, and characters nicely developed. The book's sole flaw is the reveal of the killer's motives and the ending, which come across as something you'd see in a bad Hollywood thriller, but overall this was a fascinating story. Three words: FAB - U - LOUS! So much to love in this multi-genre book--part historical fiction and cultural; part murder mystery/psychological thriller, all my favorites and quite sensational. It is 1953 in Stalin's Russia and there's a serial killer on the loose. Only that cannot be; Stalin's Russia boasts of being crime free. Therefore, when Leo of the MGB (later known as the KGB) is sent to a colleague's home to investigate the murder of his son, it is not to investigate at all but to sweep it Three words: FAB - U - LOUS! So much to love in this multi-genre book--part historical fiction and cultural; part murder mystery/psychological thriller, all my favorites and quite sensational. It is 1953 in Stalin's Russia and there's a serial killer on the loose. Only that cannot be; Stalin's Russia boasts of being crime free. Therefore, when Leo of the MGB (later known as the KGB) is sent to a colleague's home to investigate the murder of his son, it is not to investigate at all but to sweep it under the rug, to convince the family it was an accidental death. Still, despite not admitting to any real crimes existing, the MGB fabricates all sorts of accusations of spying by ordinary citizens (one of which is Leo's wife), looking at someone the wrong way, etc., and will go to great efforts to prove these innocent people guilty. Everyone is guilty until proven innocent, but no one is ever proven innocent and consequences are paid in big ways. Trust and hope are major themes. There's a lot of background info and setting up of the plot before the action picks up in the latter half of the book. Have patience. It is going to get oh, so good! Leo became a character I could grow to love as he realized what a farce his job and life were, and that there really was someone out there murdering young people. And as his underground, unauthorized investigation will reveal, 44 known murders fit the killer's modus operandi. Who to trust turns out to be NO ONE. Even friends and family have ulterior motives for their actions. A great depiction of life, really survival, in the USSR in those times, with many twists. ...more Excellent thriller. I've been reading this very slowly because of RL, but last night I just couldn't stop myself and finished it in one go. I'm not saying anything about it. If you like thrillers, you'll like this. Great book! Verdade ou Fic\u00e7\u00e3o Se h\u00e1 livros capazes de transmitir qu\u00e3o t\u00e9nue \u00e9 a linha que separa a realidade da fic\u00e7\u00e3o, este \u00e9 um deles. A hist\u00f3ria come\u00e7a no per\u00edodo do Holodomor - uma \u00e9poca de fome induzida pelo pr\u00f3prio Estaline \u00e0 popula\u00e7\u00e3o da Ucr\u00e2nia - numa altura em que o Estado se apropriou de toda a produ\u00e7\u00e3o do campesinato ucraniano. Alegava-se que tal medida se enquadrava no projecto de coletiviza\u00e7\u00e3o agr\u00edcola da URSS. Contudo, n\u00e3o era mais que uma puni\u00e7\u00e3o ao nacionalismo rebelde dos ucranianos que redun Verdade ou Fic\u00e7\u00e3o Se h\u00e1 livros capazes de transmitir qu\u00e3o t\u00e9nue \u00e9 a linha que separa a realidade da fic\u00e7\u00e3o, este \u00e9 um deles. A hist\u00f3ria come\u00e7a no per\u00edodo do Holodomor - uma \u00e9poca de fome induzida pelo pr\u00f3prio Estaline \u00e0 popula\u00e7\u00e3o da Ucr\u00e2nia - numa altura em que o Estado se apropriou de toda a produ\u00e7\u00e3o do campesinato ucraniano. Alegava-se que tal medida se enquadrava no projecto de coletiviza\u00e7\u00e3o agr\u00edcola da URSS. Contudo, n\u00e3o era mais que uma puni\u00e7\u00e3o ao nacionalismo rebelde dos ucranianos que redundou num exterm\u00ednio de milh\u00f5es (cerca de 5). Segundo consta, os esfomeados e desesperados ucranianos, chegaram a cometer atos de canibalismo!... Inspirado nesse h\u00f3rrido per\u00edodo da Hist\u00f3ria, o autor pinta-nos um quadro chocante, mas deveras cred\u00edvel! Quanto ao thriller propriamente dito, tamb\u00e9m ele \u00e9 baseado em factos ver\u00eddicos. Um dos mais famosos serial killers de sempre - Rostov Ripper - era de nacionalidade russa , e as suas v\u00edtimas , na sua maioria crian\u00e7as, ultrapassaram a meia centena. Consta que a investiga\u00e7\u00e3o criminal foi largamente prejudicada porque supostamente, os serial killers eram inexistentes na URSS. Era um regime perfeito , sem lugar para crimes. Os assassinos eram uma praga exclusiva dos regimes capitalistas!... Esta proximidade com a R\u00fassia de Estaline, torna esta leitura did\u00e1ctica e altamente recomend\u00e1vel! 5 estrelas bem merecidas!!! Nota: A convers\u00e3o desta obra em filme, que ocorreu em 2015, foi banida na URSS. Apesar dos crimes cometidos, a atual R\u00fassia n\u00e3o reconhece a culpabilidade de Estaline! Os assassinatos em massa - o genoc\u00eddio - foram encarados como um mal necess\u00e1rio. Segundo os Comp\u00eandios de Hist\u00f3ria, tratou-se duma medida imprescind\u00edvel \u00e0 constru\u00e7\u00e3o duma R\u00fassia leal e imaculada sob uma perspectiva de disciplina executiva. E \u00e9 essa \"verdade hist\u00f3rica\" que \u00e9 transmitido \u00e0s gera\u00e7\u00f5es vindouras! ...more It was decently written, and a compelling story, but I got the feeling I was reading a screenplay. It was as if the author couldn't be bothered to fully flesh-out a scene, so he's just say \"and then they all started shooting and people got killed.\" Seemed sort of lazy..... Well, well, well. Now here's a thriller with a nice twist: a serial killer is on the loose in Stalinist Russia. Except that in Stalinist Russia there is no such thing as crime. Well, except for political crimes like reading banned litterature, looking at someone the wrong way, \"plotting\" against the state by working too close to a Western embassy, making a drunken joke about Stalin, etc. But murder? No, comrade. Not unless Siberia suddenly sounds good to you. What you end up with is a fast-paced Well, well, well. Now here's a thriller with a nice twist: a serial killer is on the loose in Stalinist Russia. Except that in Stalinist Russia there is no such thing as crime. Well, except for political crimes like reading banned litterature, looking at someone the wrong way, \"plotting\" against the state by working too close to a Western embassy, making a drunken joke about Stalin, etc. But murder? No, comrade. Not unless Siberia suddenly sounds good to you. What you end up with is a fast-paced mystery about a desperate manhunt for a serial killer, and a flawed political system trying to stop it at all costs. What can I say? KICK ASS. Cool story, ending a little too neat, but over all, ROCK! ...more Child 44, Tom Rob Smith \u0639\u0646\u0648\u0627\u0646: \u06a9\u0648\u062f\u06a9 44 - \u0631\u0645\u0627\u0646\u061b \u062a\u0627\u0645 \u0631\u0627\u0628 \u0627\u0633\u0645\u06cc\u062a\u061b \u0645\u062a\u0631\u062c\u0645: \u0646\u0627\u062f\u0631 \u0642\u0628\u0644\u0647 \u0627\u06cc\u061b \u062a\u0647\u0631\u0627\u0646\u060c \u0645\u0631\u0648\u0627\u0631\u06cc\u062f\u060c 1389\u060c \u062f\u0631 455 \u0635\u061b \u0634\u0627\u0628\u06a9: 9789641910923\u061b \u0645\u0648\u0636\u0648\u0639: \u062f\u0627\u0633\u062a\u0627\u0646\u0647\u0627\u06cc \u0646\u0648\u06cc\u0633\u0646\u062f\u06af\u0627\u0646 \u0627\u0646\u06af\u0644\u06cc\u0633\u06cc \u0642\u0631\u0646 20 \u0645 The culture and history of Stalin-ist Russia enticed me to read this book and they were what kept me reading in spite of a gruesome first chapter and other instances of torture and brutality. The snapshot of the lives of everyday Russian citizens living in fear of the MGB and Soviet government offers some explanation of why most will turn traitor on their own neighbors and even family. Explanation of how miltiamen such as the hero of this book, Leo Demidov, can torture and brutalize his own neig The culture and history of Stalin-ist Russia enticed me to read this book and they were what kept me reading in spite of a gruesome first chapter and other instances of torture and brutality. The snapshot of the lives of everyday Russian citizens living in fear of the MGB and Soviet government offers some explanation of why most will turn traitor on their own neighbors and even family. Explanation of how miltiamen such as the hero of this book, Leo Demidov, can torture and brutalize his own neighbors and rationalize it is afforded in this story. My reluctance to read this book centered around my dislike of too many coincidences and unrealistic plots in most thrillers. This book remained believable until the last 75-100 pages but by that time I was too immersed in the story to mind any inadequacies. Certainly, the value of the historic and cultural content outweighed the less-than-stellar plotting. In addition, I was impressed that this was a first novel for Tom Rob Smith. 3 stars seemed a fair rating to me. ...more This is an intriguing read, about a serial killer in Russia in 1953, around the time of Stalin's death. An MGB officer is ordered to cover up one of the murders, as it was apparently policy at the time not to admit that crime existed in their 'perfect' society, but he ends up compelled to catch the killer instead. This is a re-read for me. I originally read it on my Kindle a couple of years ago when it was the book of the month for my workplace Book Club. I enjoyed it then so when I had the chanc This is an intriguing read, about a serial killer in Russia in 1953, around the time of Stalin's death. An MGB officer is ordered to cover up one of the murders, as it was apparently policy at the time not to admit that crime existed in their 'perfect' society, but he ends up compelled to catch the killer instead. This is a re-read for me. I originally read it on my Kindle a couple of years ago when it was the book of the month for my workplace Book Club. I enjoyed it then so when I had the chance to pick up the entire trilogy in audiobook format recently I jumped at it. As always with a second reading, there was stuff I missed the first time around, which is why I enjoy re-reading. Knowing the ultimate outcome also shed new light on the proceedings and made me appreciate how well the author planned the book. My only reason for not giving this book full marks is that the series of extreme coincidences that drive the plot are a little hard to swallow at times. It doesn't spoil my enjoyment of the novel but I did finding myself thinking 'yeah, right' a few times. Anyway, that's the re-read of book one done. On to reading book two for the first time! ...more 3,5 \u03b1\u03c3\u03c4\u03b5\u03c1\u03ac\u03ba\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03c0\u03c1\u03b1\u03b3\u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc\u03c4\u03b7\u03c4\u03b1 \u03b8\u03b1 \u03bc\u03c0\u03bf\u03c1\u03bf\u03cd\u03c3\u03b1\u03bd \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b3\u03af\u03bd\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd 4 \u03b1\u03bd \u03b5\u03af\u03c7\u03b1 \u03b1\u03c0\u03bf\u03c6\u03b1\u03c3\u03af\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9 \u03b1\u03bd \u03bc\u03bf\u03c5 \u03ac\u03c1\u03b5\u03c3\u03b5 \u03c4\u03b5\u03bb\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03c4\u03bf \u03c4\u03ad\u03bb\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03ac \u03b1\u03c2 \u03c4\u03b1 \u03c0\u03ac\u03c1\u03bf\u03c5\u03bc\u03b5 \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03b1\u03c1\u03c7\u03ae \u03c0\u03c1\u03b9\u03bd \u03c6\u03c4\u03ac\u03c3\u03bf\u03c5\u03bc\u03b5 \u03c3\u03b5 \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03cc \u03c4\u03bf \u03ba\u03bf\u03bc\u03bc\u03ac\u03c4\u03b9. \u0394\u03b5\u03b4\u03bf\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03bf\u03c5 \u03cc\u03c4\u03b9 \u03c0\u03c1\u03cc\u03ba\u03b5\u03b9\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf \u03c3\u03c5\u03b3\u03b3\u03c1\u03b1\u03c6\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc \u03bd\u03c4\u03b5\u03bc\u03c0\u03bf\u03cd\u03c4\u03bf \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c3\u03c5\u03b3\u03b3\u03c1\u03b1\u03c6\u03ad\u03b1 \u03b8\u03b1 \u03bb\u03b5\u03b3\u03b5 \u03ba\u03b1\u03bd\u03b5\u03af\u03c2 \u03cc\u03c4\u03b9 \u03bf \u03a4\u03bf\u03bc \u03a1\u03bf\u03bc\u03c0 \u03a3\u03bc\u03b9\u03b8 \u03bc\u03c0\u03ae\u03ba\u03b5 \u03b4\u03c5\u03bd\u03b1\u03bc\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf \u03c7\u03ce\u03c1\u03bf \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03c3\u03c5\u03b3\u03b3\u03c1\u03b1\u03c6\u03ae\u03c2 \u03ba\u03ac\u03bd\u03bf\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1\u03c2 \u03b7\u03c7\u03b7\u03c1\u03ae \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03c0\u03b1\u03c1\u03bf\u03c5\u03c3\u03af\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf \u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03b3\u03bd\u03c9\u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc \u03ba\u03bf\u03b9\u03bd\u03cc \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b9\u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03af\u03c4\u03b5\u03c1\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03bb\u03ac\u03c4\u03c1\u03b5\u03b9\u03c2 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03b1\u03c3\u03c4\u03c5\u03bd\u03bf\u03bc\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae\u03c2 \u03bb\u03bf\u03b3\u03bf\u03c4\u03b5\u03c7\u03bd\u03af\u03b1\u03c2. \u039c\u03b5 \u03bf\u03c1\u03b8\u03cc \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bc\u03b5\u03c3\u03c4\u03cc \u03bb\u03cc\u03b3\u03bf \u03b4\u03b7\u03bc\u03b9\u03bf\u03c5\u03c1\u03b3\u03b5\u03af \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1 \u03b1\u03bb\u03b7\u03b8\u03b9\u03bd\u03ac \u03b5\u03bd\u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03c6\u03ad\u03c1\u03bf\u03c5\u03c3\u03b1 \u03b9\u03c3 3,5 \u03b1\u03c3\u03c4\u03b5\u03c1\u03ac\u03ba\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03c0\u03c1\u03b1\u03b3\u03bc\u03b1\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc\u03c4\u03b7\u03c4\u03b1 \u03b8\u03b1 \u03bc\u03c0\u03bf\u03c1\u03bf\u03cd\u03c3\u03b1\u03bd \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b3\u03af\u03bd\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd 4 \u03b1\u03bd \u03b5\u03af\u03c7\u03b1 \u03b1\u03c0\u03bf\u03c6\u03b1\u03c3\u03af\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9 \u03b1\u03bd \u03bc\u03bf\u03c5 \u03ac\u03c1\u03b5\u03c3\u03b5 \u03c4\u03b5\u03bb\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03c4\u03bf \u03c4\u03ad\u03bb\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03ac \u03b1\u03c2 \u03c4\u03b1 \u03c0\u03ac\u03c1\u03bf\u03c5\u03bc\u03b5 \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03b1\u03c1\u03c7\u03ae \u03c0\u03c1\u03b9\u03bd \u03c6\u03c4\u03ac\u03c3\u03bf\u03c5\u03bc\u03b5 \u03c3\u03b5 \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03cc \u03c4\u03bf \u03ba\u03bf\u03bc\u03bc\u03ac\u03c4\u03b9. \u0394\u03b5\u03b4\u03bf\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03bf\u03c5 \u03cc\u03c4\u03b9 \u03c0\u03c1\u03cc\u03ba\u03b5\u03b9\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf \u03c3\u03c5\u03b3\u03b3\u03c1\u03b1\u03c6\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc \u03bd\u03c4\u03b5\u03bc\u03c0\u03bf\u03cd\u03c4\u03bf \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c3\u03c5\u03b3\u03b3\u03c1\u03b1\u03c6\u03ad\u03b1 \u03b8\u03b1 \u03bb\u03b5\u03b3\u03b5 \u03ba\u03b1\u03bd\u03b5\u03af\u03c2 \u03cc\u03c4\u03b9 \u03bf \u03a4\u03bf\u03bc \u03a1\u03bf\u03bc\u03c0 \u03a3\u03bc\u03b9\u03b8 \u03bc\u03c0\u03ae\u03ba\u03b5 \u03b4\u03c5\u03bd\u03b1\u03bc\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf \u03c7\u03ce\u03c1\u03bf \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03c3\u03c5\u03b3\u03b3\u03c1\u03b1\u03c6\u03ae\u03c2 \u03ba\u03ac\u03bd\u03bf\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1\u03c2 \u03b7\u03c7\u03b7\u03c1\u03ae \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03c0\u03b1\u03c1\u03bf\u03c5\u03c3\u03af\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf \u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03b3\u03bd\u03c9\u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc \u03ba\u03bf\u03b9\u03bd\u03cc \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b9\u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03af\u03c4\u03b5\u03c1\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03bb\u03ac\u03c4\u03c1\u03b5\u03b9\u03c2 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03b1\u03c3\u03c4\u03c5\u03bd\u03bf\u03bc\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae\u03c2 \u03bb\u03bf\u03b3\u03bf\u03c4\u03b5\u03c7\u03bd\u03af\u03b1\u03c2. \u039c\u03b5 \u03bf\u03c1\u03b8\u03cc \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bc\u03b5\u03c3\u03c4\u03cc \u03bb\u03cc\u03b3\u03bf \u03b4\u03b7\u03bc\u03b9\u03bf\u03c5\u03c1\u03b3\u03b5\u03af \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1 \u03b1\u03bb\u03b7\u03b8\u03b9\u03bd\u03ac \u03b5\u03bd\u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03c6\u03ad\u03c1\u03bf\u03c5\u03c3\u03b1 \u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03c1\u03af\u03b1 \u03b2\u03b1\u03c3\u03b9\u03c3\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03b7 \u03c3\u03b5 \u03b1\u03bb\u03b7\u03b8\u03b9\u03bd\u03ac \u03b3\u03b5\u03b3\u03bf\u03bd\u03cc\u03c4\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1\u03c6\u03ad\u03c1\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf \u03bc\u03b5\u03b3\u03b1\u03bb\u03cd\u03c4\u03b5\u03c1\u03bf \u03bc\u03ad\u03c1\u03bf\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf\u03c5 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03ba\u03c1\u03b1\u03c4\u03ac\u03b5\u03b9 \u03b1\u03bc\u03b5\u03af\u03c9\u03c4\u03bf \u03c4\u03bf \u03b5\u03bd\u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03c6\u03ad\u03c1\u03bf\u03bd \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03b3\u03bd\u03ce\u03c3\u03c4\u03b7 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03ba\u03ac\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf\u03bd \u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03b3\u03bd\u03ce\u03c3\u03c4\u03b7 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b1\u03c1\u03b4\u03b9\u03bf\u03c7\u03c4\u03c5\u03c0\u03ac \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03b5\u03cd\u03c1\u03b5\u03c3\u03b7 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b4\u03bf\u03bb\u03bf\u03c6\u03cc\u03bd\u03bf\u03c5 \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1\u03c0\u03af\u03bd\u03bf\u03bd\u03c4\u03b1\u03c2 \u03bc\u03af\u03b1 \u03bc\u03af\u03b1 \u03c4\u03b9\u03c2 \u03c3\u03b5\u03bb\u03af\u03b4\u03b5\u03c2 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1\u03c4\u03af \u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b1\u03bd \u03ad\u03c7\u03b5\u03b9 \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03c3\u03cc\u03bd \u03c4\u03bf \u03c3\u03c5\u03b3\u03ba\u03b5\u03ba\u03c1\u03b9\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03bf \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03cc\u03c4\u03b9 \u03c7\u03c9\u03c1\u03af\u03c2 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf \u03bc\u03b5\u03b3\u03ac\u03bb\u03bf \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf, \u03c4\u03bf \u03ba\u03b1\u03bb\u03cd\u03c4\u03b5\u03c1\u03bf \u03b1\u03c3\u03c4\u03c5\u03bd\u03bf\u03bc\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc \u03bc\u03c5\u03b8\u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03cc\u03c1\u03b7\u03bc\u03b1 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03ad\u03c7\u03b5\u03b9\u03c2 \u03b4\u03b9\u03b1\u03b2\u03ac\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c3\u03b5 \u03c0\u03bf\u03c4\u03ad \u03c3\u03b5 \u03ba\u03c1\u03b1\u03c4\u03ac \u03c3\u03b5 \u03b1\u03b3\u03c9\u03bd\u03af\u03b1 \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b1\u03c5\u03c4\u03cc \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03bb\u03ad\u03bc\u03b5 \u03c3\u03c4\u03bf \u03bb\u03b5\u03be\u03b9\u03bb\u03cc\u03b3\u03b9\u03bf \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03b3\u03bd\u03ce\u03c3\u03c4\u03b7 \u03ba\u03bb\u03b1\u03c3\u03c3\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc page turner \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf \u03b5\u03bd\u03ce \u03bf\u03b9 \u03ba\u03b5\u03bd\u03c4\u03c1\u03b9\u03ba\u03bf\u03af \u03c7\u03b1\u03c1\u03b1\u03ba\u03c4\u03ae\u03c1\u03b5\u03c2 \u03c3\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b5\u03be\u03ac\u03c0\u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03bd \u03b5\u03c0\u03af\u03c3\u03b7\u03c2 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03b9\u03ad\u03c1\u03b3\u03b5\u03b9\u03b1 \u03b4\u03b5\u03b4\u03bf\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03bf\u03c5 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03c9\u03bd \u03b2\u03b9\u03c9\u03bc\u03ac\u03c4\u03c9\u03bd \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2. \u0394\u03b5\u03bd \u03b5\u03c7\u03c9 \u03b1\u03ba\u03c1\u03b9\u03b2\u03ae \u03b5\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc\u03bd\u03b1 \u03c4\u03c9\u03bd \u03cc\u03c3\u03c9\u03bd \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03ad\u03b2\u03b1\u03b9\u03bd\u03b1\u03bd \u03b5\u03ba\u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b7 \u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03af\u03bf\u03b4\u03bf \u03c3\u03c4\u03b7\u03bd \u03a3\u03bf\u03b2\u03b9\u03b5\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae \u0388\u03bd\u03c9\u03c3\u03b7 \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03bc\u03c0\u03bf\u03c1\u03ce \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c3\u03b9\u03b3\u03bf\u03c5\u03c1\u03b9\u03ac \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c0\u03c9 \u03cc\u03c4\u03b9 \u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03c1\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03c4\u03bf \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf \u03ba\u03b1\u03bb\u03cd\u03c0\u03c4\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b1 \u03b3\u03b5\u03b3\u03bf\u03bd\u03cc\u03c4\u03b1 \u03cc\u03c0\u03c9\u03c2 \u03b1\u03ba\u03c1\u03b9\u03b2\u03ce\u03c2 \u03ae\u03c4\u03b1\u03bd \u03cc\u03bc\u03c9\u03c2 \u03c3\u03c4\u03b1 \u03b4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03bc\u03bf\u03c5 \u03bc\u03ac\u03c4\u03b9\u03b1 \u03bf \u03c3\u03c5\u03b3\u03b3\u03c1\u03b1\u03c6\u03ad\u03b1\u03c2 \u03c6\u03b1\u03af\u03bd\u03b5\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b1\u03c0\u03ad\u03b4\u03c9\u03c3\u03b5 \u03c3\u03c9\u03c3\u03c4\u03ac \u03c4\u03bf \u03ba\u03bb\u03af\u03bc\u03b1 \u03b5\u03ba\u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b7\u03c2 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03b5\u03c0\u03bf\u03c7\u03ae\u03c2 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03bc\u03b9\u03b1 \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03b9\u03b3\u03c1\u03b1\u03c6\u03ae \u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03b1\u03bd \u03bc\u03b7 \u03c4\u03b9 \u03ac\u03bb\u03bb\u03c9 \u03bc\u03bf\u03c5 \u03ad\u03bc\u03bf\u03b9\u03b1\u03b6\u03b5 \u03c0\u03b5\u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae. \u039a\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b5\u03b4\u03ce \u03ba\u03ac\u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03ad\u03c1\u03c7\u03b5\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b7 \u03bc\u03b5\u03b3\u03ac\u03bb\u03b7 \u03bc\u03bf\u03c5 \u03ad\u03bd\u03c3\u03c4\u03b1\u03c3\u03b7 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b8\u03ce\u03c2 \u03b8\u03b5\u03c9\u03c1\u03ce \u03cc\u03c4\u03b9 \u03bf \u03c3\u03c5\u03b3\u03b3\u03c1\u03b1\u03c6\u03ad\u03b1\u03c2 \u03b1\u03ba\u03c1\u03b9\u03b2\u03ce\u03c2 \u03bc\u03ac\u03bb\u03bb\u03bf\u03bd \u03b5\u03be\u03ac\u03bd\u03c4\u03bb\u03b7\u03c3\u03b5 \u03cc\u03bb\u03bf \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c4\u03bf \u03c3\u03c5\u03b3\u03b3\u03c1\u03b1\u03c6\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc \u03c4\u03b1\u03bb\u03ad\u03bd\u03c4\u03bf \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b1\u03c0\u03bf\u03b4\u03ce\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c0\u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03ac \u03c4\u03bf \u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03c1\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc \u03ba\u03bf\u03bc\u03bc\u03ac\u03c4\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03b9\u03c3\u03c4\u03bf\u03c1\u03af\u03b1\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03b1\u03c0\u03bf\u03c4\u03ad\u03bb\u03b5\u03c3\u03bc\u03b1 \u03b1\u03c0\u03cc \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03c3\u03b7\u03bc\u03b5\u03af\u03bf \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bc\u03b5\u03c4\u03ac \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b1\u03c0\u03bf\u03b4\u03c5\u03bd\u03b1\u03bc\u03ce\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf \u03ad\u03c1\u03b3\u03bf \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03b1\u03c0\u03bf\u03ba\u03bf\u03c1\u03cd\u03c6\u03c9\u03bc\u03b1 \u03c4\u03bf \u03c6\u03b9\u03bd\u03ac\u03bb\u03b5 \u03c4\u03bf \u03bf\u03c0\u03bf\u03af\u03bf \u03c3\u03b9\u03b3\u03bf\u03c5\u03c1\u03b1 \u03c0\u03bf\u03bb\u03bb\u03bf\u03c5\u03c2 \u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03b3\u03bd\u03ce\u03c3\u03c4\u03b5\u03c2 \u03b8\u03b1 \u03be\u03b1\u03c6\u03bd\u03b9\u03ac\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03af\u03c3\u03c9\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b5\u03bd\u03b8\u03bf\u03c5\u03c3\u03b9\u03ac\u03c3\u03b5\u03b9 \u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03ac \u03b5\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03b1 \u03bd\u03bf\u03bc\u03af\u03b6\u03c9 \u03c4\u03b5\u03bb\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03bc\u03ac\u03bb\u03bb\u03bf\u03bd \u03bc\u03b5 \u03b1\u03c0\u03bf\u03b3\u03bf\u03ae\u03c4\u03b5\u03c5\u03c3\u03b5 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf \u03b2\u03c1\u03ae\u03ba\u03b1 \u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03c7\u03b5\u03b9\u03c1\u03bf\u03b3\u03c1\u03b1\u03bc\u03bc\u03ad\u03bd\u03bf \u03c3\u03b5 \u03c3\u03c7\u03ad\u03c3\u03b7 \u03bc\u03b5 \u03c4\u03bf \u03c5\u03c0\u03cc\u03bb\u03bf\u03b9\u03c0\u03bf \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf. \u0393\u03b9\u03b1 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c3\u03b1\u03c2 \u03b4\u03ce\u03c3\u03c9 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b1\u03c4\u03b1\u03bb\u03ac\u03b2\u03b5\u03c4\u03b5 \u03ad\u03bd\u03b9\u03c9\u03c3\u03b1 \u03bb\u03af\u03b3\u03bf \u03c3\u03b1\u03bd \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b5\u03af\u03c7\u03b1 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c0\u03ac\u03c9 \u03c3\u03b5 \u03ba\u03ac\u03c0\u03bf\u03b9\u03bf \u03c1\u03b1\u03bd\u03c4\u03b5\u03b2\u03bf\u03cd \u03cc\u03c0\u03bf\u03c5 \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03af\u03bc\u03b5\u03bd\u03b1 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c5\u03bd\u03b1\u03bd\u03c4\u03ae\u03c3\u03c9 \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1\u03bd \u03c8\u03b7\u03bb\u03cc \u03bc\u03b5\u03bb\u03b1\u03c7\u03c1\u03b9\u03bd\u03cc \u03bc\u03b5 \u03b3\u03b1\u03bb\u03ac\u03b6\u03b9\u03b1 \u03bc\u03ac\u03c4\u03b9\u03b1 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03c4\u03b5\u03bb\u03b9\u03ba\u03ac \u03b2\u03bb\u03ad\u03c0\u03c9 \u03bc\u03c0\u03c1\u03bf\u03c3\u03c4\u03ac \u03bc\u03bf\u03c5 \u03ad\u03bd\u03b1\u03bd \u03ba\u03bf\u03bd\u03c4\u03cc \u03c7\u03bf\u03bd\u03c4\u03c1\u03cc \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03ba\u03b1\u03ba\u03ac\u03c3\u03c7\u03b7\u03bc\u03bf \u03c4\u03ad\u03c1\u03b1\u03c2 \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03c6\u03cd\u03c3\u03b5\u03c9\u03c2. \u0395 \u03cc\u03c3\u03bf \u03ba\u03b1\u03bb\u03cc\u03c2 \u03ac\u03bd\u03b8\u03c1\u03c9\u03c0\u03bf\u03c2 \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b1\u03bd \u03b5\u03af\u03bd\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bf \u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03b9 \u03bf\u03cd \u03be\u03b5\u03bd\u03b5\u03c1\u03ce\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9\u03c2 \u03ae \u03b4\u03b5\u03bd \u03be\u03b5\u03bd\u03b5\u03c1\u03ce\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9\u03c2? \u0391\u03c5\u03c4\u03cc. \u039a\u03b1\u03c4\u03ac \u03c4\u2019 \u03ac\u03bb\u03bb\u03b1 \u03c3\u03c5\u03c3\u03c4\u03ae\u03bd\u03b5\u03c4\u03b1\u03b9 \u03b1\u03bb\u03bb\u03ac \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03bb\u03b5\u03b9\u03c8\u03b5 \u03bb\u03af\u03b3\u03bf \u03b1\u03ba\u03cc\u03bc\u03b1 \u03b1\u03bb\u03b1\u03c4\u03bf\u03c0\u03af\u03c0\u03b5\u03c1\u03bf \u03b3\u03b9\u03b1 \u03bd\u03b1 \u03b3\u03af\u03bd\u03b5\u03b9 \u03c4\u03bf \u03bc\u03b5\u03b3\u03ac\u03bb\u03bf \u03b1\u03c3\u03c4\u03c5\u03bd\u03bf\u03bc\u03b9\u03ba\u03cc \u03b2\u03b9\u03b2\u03bb\u03af\u03bf \u03ba\u03b1\u03b9 \u03bf \u03b7\u03c1\u03c9\u03b1\u03c2 \u03c4\u03bf\u03c5 \u03bf \u039b\u03b5\u03bf \u03c4\u03bf talk of the town \u03bc\u03b5\u03c4\u03b1\u03be\u03cd \u03c4\u03c9\u03bd \u03b1\u03bd\u03b1\u03b3\u03bd\u03c9\u03c3\u03c4\u03ce\u03bd-\u03b5\u03c1\u03b1\u03c3\u03c4\u03ce\u03bd \u03c4\u03b7\u03c2 \u03b1\u03c3\u03c4\u03c5\u03bd\u03bf\u03bc\u03b9\u03ba\u03ae\u03c2 \u03bb\u03bf\u03b3\u03bf\u03c4\u03b5\u03c7\u03bd\u03af\u03b1\u03c2. ...more I was captivated by the setting of this tale and its psychological chills and atmospherics, but ultimately the characters came off rather wooden to me. The story concerns a prolonged search for a serial killer in post-war Stalinist Russia by state security agent Leo Demidov. The killings of children are brutal with ritualistic mutilation. Because such crime is not supposed to exist in a happy communist society, Leo is handicapped in linking the cases together and is led to pursue the case on the I was captivated by the setting of this tale and its psychological chills and atmospherics, but ultimately the characters came off rather wooden to me. The story concerns a prolonged search for a serial killer in post-war Stalinist Russia by state security agent Leo Demidov. The killings of children are brutal with ritualistic mutilation. Because such crime is not supposed to exist in a happy communist society, Leo is handicapped in linking the cases together and is led to pursue the case on the sly. Eventually, he gains a conscience and risks everything to solve the case. Initially in the story, Leo has a life of privilege in Moscow as an effective cog in the machine with the MGB. As true believer in the Soviet system, he puts blinders on over its paranoid excesses in repression and torture, seeing them as serving the larger good for society. But when the MGB\u2019s zeal on an espionage investigation leads to excessive cruelty in one case and some false suspicions of his own wife Raisa, he begins to balk and the hammer comes down on him. He gets banished to the militia police in a rural area south of Moscow. His continued pursuit of the serial killer becomes a path for him to redeem his soul and his marriage. Ultimately, Leo turned out too much of a blank slate to me and his conversion from the dark side not very compelling. The phase where Raisa joins forces with him to work the case while on the run themselves seemed implausible and too much a Hollywood turn. The same is true of the motivations of the killer. Somehow I didn\u2019t get bound up with his character is the same way that I do with Martin Cruz Smith\u2019s Arkady Renko or Philip Kerr\u2019s Bernie Gunther, who serve as investigators in Stalinist Russia and Hitler\u2019s Germany. ...more Quite an impressive first novel. Contains elements of a lot of different genres. A little historical, a mystery, a little horror, and some suspense/thriller. Apparently there really was a serial killer in Russia in the 1980s that was similar to this fictional one. The author placed the story back in the 1950s instead, right around the time of Stalin's death. Early in the book I thought the author gave an excellent feel for the way it is to live in a closed society. People in Stalinist Russia co Quite an impressive first novel. Contains elements of a lot of different genres. A little historical, a mystery, a little horror, and some suspense/thriller. Apparently there really was a serial killer in Russia in the 1980s that was similar to this fictional one. The author placed the story back in the 1950s instead, right around the time of Stalin's death. Early in the book I thought the author gave an excellent feel for the way it is to live in a closed society. People in Stalinist Russia could not trust anyone, including family and friends. Anyone could denounce you for no reason, just to better their own lot in life or to prevent themselves from being sent off to the gulag or executed. This story is filled with clever surprises and plot twists. If it seems like there are useless parts that don't fit into the story, keep reading. All will come together in the end. The book is not seamless. There is some occasional choppiness, but what the heck, it's a first novel. Just suspend your disbelief and enjoy the read. ...more", "Title": "Child 44"},
