{"Comments": "To be fair, I think if you are a fan of <---A>Stephenie Meyer</---A> and all her books (<---B>including The Host and Breaking Dawn </---B>), you will enjoy this novella too.<---F> Alas, I am not</---F>. Gone are the days when I used to be entranced by the Twilight Saga. I have to give credit to SM for introducing me to the genre of paranormal fiction, but as I read more and more of it, it is getting more obvious how subpar her writing is. I didn't finish this novella. I abandoned it because it was boring, one-note,<---M> lacked excitement</---M>, To be fair, I think if you are a fan of Stephenie Meyer and all her books (including The Host and Breaking Dawn ), you will enjoy this novella too. Alas, I am not. Gone are the days when I used to be entranced by the Twilight Saga. I have to give credit to SM for introducing me to the genre of paranormal fiction, but as I read more and more of it, it is getting more obvious how subpar her writing is. I didn't finish this novella. I abandoned it because it was boring, one-note, lacked excitement, and very wordy without substance. Plus I couldn't stop myself from nitpicking (and it is always a bad sign): 1) Does any vampire actually ever go through a violent and horrific newborn phase Eddie used to warn Bella about on numerous occasions? Because nobody seems to have suffered through it in Victoria's gang, everyone appears to be very aware and at the same time with no sign of remorse or guilt (including Bree and Diego). 2) So, how exactly can you cover up disappearances of hundreds of vamp victims, even if they all are prostitutes and drug addicts? 3) Vampire kissy noises - stone on stone? Eww, and why, Bella, was it really like snogging a statue? And are bad vampires not allowed to go beyond 1st base? Because I don't think Victoria and Riley do, they prefer making vamp \"kissy noises.\" The only reason I am asking this question is because of the portrayal of Cullens as sex-crazed-furniture-breaking nymphomaniacs in Breaking Dawn . Why should newborn teenage vampires be any different? 4) Seeing sparkles evidently causes instant \"to-die-for\" love? 5) To make vamps want to puke is another special vamp power, right? 6) A couple of 15- and 18-year old newborn vamps, when alone, talk about special BFF clubs, secret handshakes and being ninjas. Well, I guess I have at least somewhat satisfied my curiosity - I wanted to know if my interest for Twilight could ever be revived. The answer is: No, it can't. ...more 4 poignantly, tragically, thought provoking stars!! I want to say, right up front, that I hadn\u2019t planned to read this book because those of us who read the entire Twilight Saga already know that things don\u2019t turn out well for Bree Tanner. She played a very, very minor role in the book, Eclipse - I don\u2019t even think she appeared in more than 2 pages - so, why read something about a character I cared very little about and already knew the outcome of? Well, one day I went to my mailbox and there wa 4 poignantly, tragically, thought provoking stars!! I want to say, right up front, that I hadn\u2019t planned to read this book because those of us who read the entire Twilight Saga already know that things don\u2019t turn out well for Bree Tanner. She played a very, very minor role in the book, Eclipse - I don\u2019t even think she appeared in more than 2 pages - so, why read something about a character I cared very little about and already knew the outcome of? Well, one day I went to my mailbox and there was a package from my dear friend and fellow Twilight fan, Dee, and inside was my very own copy of The Short Second Life of Bree Tanner. I was excited and touched by her thoughtfulness and realized that my fate was sealed! I would be reading Bree\u2019s story, after all. I\u2019ll be honest, the first 50 pages or so seemed rather ho-hum to me, and I've decided that's because I began this book dreading the outcome. Once I wrapped my mind around reading this for the story as it related to Victoria\u2019s army of newborn vampires, I couldn\u2019t put it down. I\u2019m not going to go into the plot, because frankly, if you've read Eclipse you won't need details, and if you haven\u2019t read Eclipse , you\u2019ll not understand what the point of this book is, and it would take way too long to explain. What stands out most to me about Bree\u2019s story is how all of the newborns were manipulated. It made me think of charismatic leaders around the world \u2014 political, religious, corporate or yes, even vampire \u2014 and how much influence they have over the people who are dependent on them, because if you can convince some one or some group that they need you, that you\u2019re only looking out for their best interest and that life without you as their leader would be filled with pain and anguish, possibly even death\u2026 you\u2019d have absolute control over them. Such was the case with the newborn vampires, and when looking at them in this light - as people violently torn from humanity and forced into a new way of life which they nothing about \u2013 were literally newborns and dependent on someone else for their survival \u2014 I found myself actually feeling sorry for them. I started wondering about the families who are missing them, what kind of people they would have been had they lived out their human lives. So what started out being a dreaded read, became one that really made me think about life and those we trust to lead us. And for the first time since reading Eclipse, I wished with all my heart that things could have been different for Bree Tanner. ...more God, this is so sad. Of all the books I've read and reviewed (and loved a hell of a lot more), this is still the only one anyone bothers liking or commenting on. Haven't any of you read The Lord of the Rings? It would've been so cool if there was a shadowed hour-glass on every page, with the upper bulb being full on the first and then depleting as you near the end of the novel until it's empty on the last page. For once, the illustration on the cover coincides with the story. I still have no idea God, this is so sad. Of all the books I've read and reviewed (and loved a hell of a lot more), this is still the only one anyone bothers liking or commenting on. Haven't any of you read The Lord of the Rings? It would've been so cool if there was a shadowed hour-glass on every page, with the upper bulb being full on the first and then depleting as you near the end of the novel until it's empty on the last page. For once, the illustration on the cover coincides with the story. I still have no idea why there's an apple on the cover of Twilight. Okay, I think I should give a heads-up for people planning to read this book, whether you liked Twilight or not. It's not my favorite series, personally, but I thought, hey, since Bree was just a very small character in eclipse it might be kind of interesting to read her story. You know, actually, when I reached that part in Eclipse I was kindof hoping the Cullens would adopt Bree. It would've been nice to have a new character that would be most certain to make horrible mistakes (and not the bumbling idiotic mistakes Bella makes, but justified ones), but now I realise Meyer was just trying to stay true to the nature of the Volturi by killing off Bree. One of the only things she's managed to do right. I did not like this book. You'd think, by writing from a crazed newborn's perspective, Meyer would move away a bit from her usual writing style. All her protagonists so far (Wanderer, Bella, now Bree) have nothing between them I can deferentiate with. That is, they are all the same person. Meyer should work on character-originality. I mean come on, she's gonna bore us to death if she does this again. I'm not saying this book was superficial; Bree is smarter than Bella. But that's just it. She's smart. She's a more civilized newborn than the others. Sure, she can't control her thirst, but she can think for herself. I saw no difference between her adjusting to the vampire life and Bella when she was first blooded (er, sorry, that's a Darren Shan term I got used to), except that Bree wasn't feeling guilty about trying not to harm humans, of course. She's just smart about it. She and Diego. And that's another thing; she only spends like a day with the guy and already they're comfortable enough to kiss (well, he kissed her ). Near the end we reach the scene when the Cullens are facing the newborns. That was a disappointment. Don't know if I'm spoiling or not, but the missing fight scene in Eclipse between the rest of the Cullens and the newborns is missing in this book too. That is, it happened, and Bree was there, but she took no part in it. She was looking for Diego. Stephenie Meyer seems to be afraid of making decent fight scenes. I mean, apparently the newborns fight alot amongst themselves, but the ripping off limbs thing can get pretty boring. As it is normal for Bree. True to its name, this book is pretty short, only around 170 pages or so. And maybe now I should just give you guys a summary so you can understand what I'm talking about*spoiler alert!**spoiler alert!*: Basically, the newborns live with Riley, who keeps them in order, and they are ignorant. They believe the old myths, about the sun burning them (which is the way it should be if you ask me, none of that sparkle stuff!) and the stake through the heart thing, and they know nothing about Victoria and only refer to her as her . Diego and Bree befriend each other while hiding out in a cave underwater waiting for the sun to go down, and they start questioning some of the things they've been told. Diego 'experiments', and finds out that the sun really doesn't burn at all. So um, they want to go tell Riley, in case he doesn't already know, and they overhear him and Victoria talking with the Volturi (whom they know nothing about); turns out Jane wants Victoria to defeat the Cullens, and gives her five days to prepare the newborns before she wipes them out. So Diego waits up for Riley and Bree goes back to the house, and Riley comes home without Diego, and he starts training the newborns, who even when the time finally comes to fight the Cullens are too disorganized to do anything (he feeds them this lie that once every four years the sun can't hurt them so that they'll go outside). And, well, you know the rest. Bree doesn't see the wolves because Jasper has her eyes and ears closed after she surrenders. She thinks they're another breed of vampire. Here is where you can really sympathize with Bree whilst comparing her to the Cullens because she really doesn't know anything about vampire life. And, as you know, she never will. And that's basically it. I mean, it was interesting, but good for an online short than an actual book. It wasn't worth my time. I got a massive headache when I'd finished. P.s: no more vampires for me! I'm sick of all the blood. Between Twilight Saga and the Saga of Darren Shan, I'd go with Darren Shan for true vampire lovers (I repeat, VAMPIRE lovers, not VAMPIRE ROMANCE lovers). I mean, atleast the vampires in there are not totally perfect in every way, and they can grow older and be killed. P.p.s: Okay, okay, you guys can stop telling me what the book cover of Twilight signifies, as you might've noticed I've received a billion comments chastizing my ignorance. In any case, I don't think it's at all fair to Adam and Eve to compare Bella and <---C>Edward</---C> to them. ...more We went traveling through the upper end of North Queensland once as a family. We came to one of those strange, small-town, out-of-the-way places for a quick bird study tour with my scientist uncle. The place's claim to fame was that it also housed a giant mango. Yes. You heard me right. A giant, massive replica of a mango. Within the giant mango was an ice cream shop. Nobody could explain to us why there was a giant mango or why the giant mango has somehow spawned an icecream parlor from its bowe We went traveling through the upper end of North Queensland once as a family. We came to one of those strange, small-town, out-of-the-way places for a quick bird study tour with my scientist uncle. The place's claim to fame was that it also housed a giant mango. Yes. You heard me right. A giant, massive replica of a mango. Within the giant mango was an ice cream shop. Nobody could explain to us why there was a giant mango or why the giant mango has somehow spawned an icecream parlor from its bowels like it was grotesquely pregnant and in the process of some sick, monstrous fruit/shop labor. Reading Bree Tanner was a little like that. It was something that didn't make sense, from a series that was much bigger than it should have been and in the end, nobody could properly explain its existence to me. I asked my Twilight friends why it had been published and their nonchalant, disinterested shrug was almost identical to those crazy North Queenslanders with their giant mango. Glad I didn't pay money for it. Couldn't be bothered finishing it and at least the freakishly large mango gave me ice cream. This just gave me a headache. ...more And that's what you call a novella. Don't watch, the redheaded mind reader whispered. Poignantly written, Bree is a character that I warmed up to real fast. This book is heartbreaking for the helplessness rendered by the Volturi. Moved and seized me until I got to the end. A worthy addition to the series. Pooja, I am giving this book to you for sure to read. Why? Well, the stories is already known to you but the lyrical way of this all from Bree's point of recital, is spell bounding. 5 stars! I know, I know. This book had police caution tape all around it warning me not to read. I wasn\u2019t surprised that it was as bad as it is. Actually, I think that this book provides a good example of one of the central weaknesses of Stephenie Meyer\u2019s books. I heard someone say the other day that the purpose of art is to make people feel. I know, doi , but I had never looked that one in the face before. Meyer spends most of her time, in all of her books, trying to cushion the reader from really feelin I know, I know. This book had police caution tape all around it warning me not to read. I wasn\u2019t surprised that it was as bad as it is. Actually, I think that this book provides a good example of one of the central weaknesses of Stephenie Meyer\u2019s books. I heard someone say the other day that the purpose of art is to make people feel. I know, doi , but I had never looked that one in the face before. Meyer spends most of her time, in all of her books, trying to cushion the reader from really feeling anything. It makes sense that she does this, since her writing started from what sounds to me like a sort of limited self-counseling exercise . And, I think this is why her other books worked so spectacularly for me when they did \u2013 I already had so many feelings going on about so many different things that I was looking for comfort, not art. I think that\u2019s also why they work for teenagers, whose emotions are an alternative energy source that I\u2019m convinced could power the world. (The fact that they\u2019re left in disuse is obviously some big oil conspiracy.) Her books are a fake, plastic world with fake, simple people. Her plots are driven by basic motivations and superpowers. I love it. Here, though, it worked out pretty unfortunately. You could feel that Meyer was writing it because her teacher assigned it to her and the due date had passed. In her introduction, she goes to great lengths to warn the reader that she might be forced to feel something at the end of the book; there was just no way for Meyer to get around it. It\u2019s uncomfortable. This is another example of Meyer being unable to handle any of her characters winding up unhappy. I\u2019m not complaining about that, necessarily, because I generally find it pretty funny in a sit-com kind of way. But in this case, I needed her to suck it up. The rest of this review will contain spoilers, but if you\u2019ve read Eclipse , as Ms. Meyer points out in the introduction, you already know about the timely (or untimely, if you consider how long and drawn out it is) end of Bree. Basically, the story breaks down into three parts: Act 1 : The Cheeseburger of Pain . This is where Meyer is at her best. Two vaguely shallow high school kids with vaguely tragic pasts find each other and fall in love because they\u2019re vaguely speshul. She describes their attraction in a style poignantly reminiscent of LOLcats (see thread* below). Also, they\u2019re vampires. This is what I love in Meyer. It\u2019s something that is both the easiest thing and the most impossible thing to make fun of because it\u2019s already there making fun of itself. It is everything shallow in culture, and so it is absolutely beautiful. It is its own caricature. Act 2 : The Metaphor of the Cave . This is where Meyer is on shaky ground - in consciously or unconsciously referencing other canonical works of writing. The title of the book, for example, is a major problem. Why would you rip off the title of one of the greatest short stories of the English language for a high school vampire romance? That is a problem. I feel genuine emotion when I think of The Short Happy Life of Francis Macomber , so you can\u2019t just reference it flippantly. The title hurts my feelings a little bit. If she was genuinely and respectfully using the Macomber story, then great, but I can\u2019t figure a way that\u2019s happening here. Anyway, what she is using (and it appears that she\u2019s using it unconsciously, but maybe not) is Plato's metaphor of the cave: So, the premise of the story is that there are all these baby campires that an eeeevil campire is turning into a campire army. In the Twilight world, if you didn\u2019t already know, vamps don\u2019t dust if they go into sunlight, but they do get sparkly. BUT, the evil campire told the babes that they will dust if they go into the light. So, they all believe this until they discover it\u2019s not true in a very metaphor-of-the-cave kind of way. It\u2019s funny, but also not, so it left me with an awkward neutral feeling. The cave was sitting right there, waiting to be referenced, but Meyer never explicitly did, and the revelation about sparkling didn\u2019t turn into a metaphor for life. It fell a little flat. Act 3 : Finding Forrester . There are, as I may have already ranted to you, so many reasons to be embarrassed for Gus Van Sant. Not the least of these reasons is the movie Finding Forrester . Because Finding Forrester is a perfectly fine movie, EXCEPT that it is exactly the same as Good Will Hunting , a movie that Gus Van Sant ALREADY made! That is so not okay. I actually think Van Sant has a lot of decent movie-making skills, but these choices he makes are so embarrassing to me. So, that\u2019s what the last third of Bree Tanner is. It\u2019s a recap of the end of Eclipse , but mostly in slo mo. It\u2019s truly boring. It would have made so much sense to end this book after the cave metaphor. The repeat ending wasn\u2019t revelatory, but more like explaining a joke. If we didn\u2019t make the connections, then explaining it isn\u2019t going to help. Overall, I\u2019d say go see the new Eclipse movie instead. That movie pretty neatly combines what this book has to say with what Eclipse has to say and is totally watchable, imho. It even has some great John Hughes moments, and I felt like it was laughing with me, not crying while I was laughing at it. If you can manage it, go when there are about 100 13-year-old girls in the theater, too. The swooning is a really important part of the Twilight experience. * The thread that happened before I actually read this book ends at comment 113, fyi. All future comments will be equally loved and appreciated. ...more 4 stars \u2013 Vampire/Young Adult This provided a nice Twilight Saga fix while waiting impatiently for the \"Eclipse\" movie to come out, and I enjoyed Bree's alternate viewpoint and insight into the army of newborn vampires that battle against the Cullens. But I think I speak for a large majority of Twilight fans that what we really want is for Ms. Meyer to move past her hurt feelings and wounded pride and just finish Midnight Sun , darnit! Seriously, the Meyer the Martyr routine is getting a little old 4 stars \u2013 Vampire/Young Adult This provided a nice Twilight Saga fix while waiting impatiently for the \"Eclipse\" movie to come out, and I enjoyed Bree's alternate viewpoint and insight into the army of newborn vampires that battle against the Cullens. But I think I speak for a large majority of Twilight fans that what we really want is for Ms. Meyer to move past her hurt feelings and wounded pride and just finish Midnight Sun , darnit! Seriously, the Meyer the Martyr routine is getting a little old and continuing to punish and deprive her loyal fans of what we want most just makes her seem a bit immature and petty, IMO. ...more Opening Line: \"The newspaper headline glared at me from a little vending machine: SEATTLE UNDER SEIGE--DEATH TOLL RISES AGAIN.\" I was surprised by how much I enjoyed this, I mean Bree's character only has a tiny part in Stephanie Meyers Twilight world so she and the rest of the newborns can\u2019t really have much of a story to tell can they? Well as it turns out the answer is Yes. At 178 pages this novella manages to also give up some new revelations regarding Jane and the \"dark cloaks\" (Volturi) -j Opening Line: \"The newspaper headline glared at me from a little vending machine: SEATTLE UNDER SEIGE--DEATH TOLL RISES AGAIN.\" I was surprised by how much I enjoyed this, I mean Bree's character only has a tiny part in Stephanie Meyers Twilight world so she and the rest of the newborns can\u2019t really have much of a story to tell can they? Well as it turns out the answer is Yes. At 178 pages this novella manages to also give up some new revelations regarding Jane and the \"dark cloaks\" (Volturi) -jeez, that Jane is evil! And I absolutely loved seeing Carlisle, Jasper, Bella and \u201cthe red headed mind reader\u201d from an outsider\u2019s perspective. There was more violence here then I would have expected from Meyer, as the newborns pillage Seattle and dispose of their drained food sources. I was also freaked out by a scene involving the armies seizure of a passenger ferry in the Puget Sound and the insuring carnage as the dine on their human buffet (I live on an island in the pacific northwest) We are also introduced to a couple of fantastic new characters; Diego as Bree\u2019s love interest and in particular Freaky Fred, who I really hope to read about again someday. Because we all know the outcome there is a building level of suspense throughout the story. And as the inevitable Eclipse battle approached I found myself wishing for a different ending to Bree\u2019s short second life as I'd come to genuinely care about her which I believe was Meyer's point. Bree Tanner can barely remember a life before the relentless burning thirst took over. Now as a newborn Vampire this 15 year old runaway lives a precarious existence, trying not to draw attention to herself while her and her fellow newborns fight amongst themselves, killing each other as often as their prey. Her only other constants would be Riley, who as their leader the army follows submissively and without question and a horrifying creator known only as \"her\". After 3 months Bree finds an unexpected friend in Diego when the pair discover that they can in fact go out in the daylight without turning into a pile of ash (a stake through the heart is pretty useless too) They quickly begin to wonder what else Riley\u2019s been lying about and question his agenda as a whole. However as their friendship blossoms Bree and Diego soon realize that they\u2019re nothing but pawns in a war that has little to do with them. But when everything you know about yourself as a vampire is based on a lie how do you find out the truth, who do you trust and how do you get yourself free? With such an insignificant character like Bree getting her story told I realized that the novella possibilities here are endless. Now if we could only convince Stephanie Meyer to finally finish Midnight Sun . *sigh* \"Don't watch\" the redheaded mind reader whispered. I closed my eyes.\" ...more RIP OFF! This was without doubt a cheap ploy to fleece money out of Twilight fans by throwing together some utter drivel about characters you don't give a rats ass about. The only interesting character was Fred, and the rest were a waste of space. Bree is nothing like the way newborns are talked about in the Twilight Saga(magically of course she is more restrained than they are...uh huh...). The so-called love story never even starts and the end scenes where Bree faces the Cullens is piss poor, RIP OFF! This was without doubt a cheap ploy to fleece money out of Twilight fans by throwing together some utter drivel about characters you don't give a rats ass about. The only interesting character was Fred, and the rest were a waste of space. Bree is nothing like the way newborns are talked about in the Twilight Saga(magically of course she is more restrained than they are...uh huh...). The so-called love story never even starts and the end scenes where Bree faces the Cullens is piss poor, badly written and a total anti-climax. The so-called 'shock' in the book was so obvious that I was just shaking my head! Now I loved the Twilight books but this was pure rubbish and I certainly won't buy similar novellas in the shops again. I feel totally cheated and ripped off with this twaddle. Now I'm off over to readitswapit.co.uk to get something decent in its place!!! ...more Okay, I'm no longer curious. I'm bored out of my mind. I can't force myself to finish this novella before the movie. New SM promise: I will not watch either Breaking Dawn movie. Um, in the movie theater. Unless someone makes me. And I promise to put up a fight. At least in my head. And by making, I mean asking. So... who's going to ask me? I mean, it's got to be so bad it's good, right? I am so morbidly curious about that one. This is a really fantastic novella! This was the first time I read the book and it definitely offered a really wonderful and interesting perspective that I absolutely loved. It was really well-crafted and absolutely sad (which was expected considering we know how the story must end). Fantastic addition to the series that I honestly think is better than both Twilight and Eclipse. I read the Twilight series back in High School, even before I knew the movies were coming out. I really liked the series but by the time this book came out I didn't want to go back and read another Twilight book, but for some reason now I wanted to. I am so glad I saved this book for many years later. I never re-read books unless I have to, so this was a great feeling of reading a Twilight book, but not re-reading anything I had previously read. I forgot how amazing Stephenie Meyer is at writing I read the Twilight series back in High School, even before I knew the movies were coming out. I really liked the series but by the time this book came out I didn't want to go back and read another Twilight book, but for some reason now I wanted to. I am so glad I saved this book for many years later. I never re-read books unless I have to, so this was a great feeling of reading a Twilight book, but not re-reading anything I had previously read. I forgot how amazing Stephenie Meyer is at writing. She really draws great pictures in your head of what is going on, and she makes you feel exactly what her characters are feeling. I really need to read another book by her! I haven't read anything by her but the Twilight series. I suggest this book to anyone that has read the Twilight series :) ...more Short Second was like a so-so fanfiction that let allowed readers to jump back into a generic form of Twilight. You have barely constructed main characters, who in this case were Bree, newborn vampire of a couple months, and Diego, the obvious nomination for Bree\u2019s love interest and companion. Is Diego Mexican? Does he speak Spanish? Did the author even pause to think that maybe, just maybe, readers would want to know a bit about the characters personalities, backgrounds, APPEARANCE? How do you Short Second was like a so-so fanfiction that let allowed readers to jump back into a generic form of Twilight. You have barely constructed main characters, who in this case were Bree, newborn vampire of a couple months, and Diego, the obvious nomination for Bree\u2019s love interest and companion. Is Diego Mexican? Does he speak Spanish? Did the author even pause to think that maybe, just maybe, readers would want to know a bit about the characters personalities, backgrounds, APPEARANCE? How do you read a book when you don\u2019t know what the characters look like\u2026ugh, moving on. Why was Diego so different from the other vampires and wholeheartedly trusting of Bree? And why did he even survive as long as he did with this way of thinking? Did Meyer just think, Bree has to have a boyfriend, and since I\u2019m on a hurry to grab a few extra bills, I\u2019ll just make Diego a mindless idiot who instantly likes Bree? And Bree, was she really that lonely? In one chapter she went from solo anti-social vamp, to swinging hands with some guy she just met\u2026 He was gorgeous though, so I\u2019m told. He wasn\u2019t exactly described so I can\u2019t say for sure. Good looking brain-dead guy+ new lonely vampire girl= love in a couple of pages. But I know what freaky Fred looks like! Stringy blonde hair down to his shoulders and really tall. He\u2019s a minor character, but hey, I\u2019ll take any descriptions that I can get. (PS: Did Edward dye his hair? My fuzzy memory believes he had golden brown hair, not red. Hmm.) As for all the revelations I was expecting to become common knowledge, zilch. Nada. My questions as to why these Twilight vamps sparkle, why newborns are so powerful, why there are voulturi, why Victoria\u2019s newborns were so expandable\u2026etc were not answered. Short Second was basically just a half-*ssed short story that Meyer threw out and a publisher automatically stamped just because he knew it\u2019d sell. Even I, a person who is capable of overlooking grammar and spelling mistakes, sighed at the many I found with every flip of the page\u2026. There you have it. And from a fan, too. Tsk, tsk. ...more I'm being cynical, and I'm also a little angry, and I can't comment because I haven't read it... but I just want to say one thing to Stephenie Meyer. LET IT GO. Twilight is over. You can't keep pushing it for all it's worth anymore. You have to accept that eventually all good things come to an end and it's best to end this before you completely ruin it (although you did a pretty good job of ruining the whole series with Breaking Dawn). There comes a time when it's quite sad that you have to start I'm being cynical, and I'm also a little angry, and I can't comment because I haven't read it... but I just want to say one thing to Stephenie Meyer. LET IT GO. Twilight is over. You can't keep pushing it for all it's worth anymore. You have to accept that eventually all good things come to an end and it's best to end this before you completely ruin it (although you did a pretty good job of ruining the whole series with Breaking Dawn). There comes a time when it's quite sad that you have to start writing fanfiction for your own novel. I'll read it but I doubt I'll be happy with it. Having said that, I wish that Stephenie would start on a new project. I would like to see something else from her that's not Twilight or The Host. ...more Wasn't bad. Actually this was a good nod back to the days before this series picked up its awful stigma that it has now. I like to pretend the fourth book and the movies didn't happen--these books weren't so obnoxious back then. The benefit of this book is you see how Riley and Victoria were controlling the newborn vampires--gets all the technical stuff out of the way and ties it all together nicely. 178 pages, it's a quick read. Not bad. (4 Stars) (This review assumes one has read Eclipse) I actually liked this a lot more than I thought I would! It certainly kept me engaged and was a quick read. I am most definitely a fan of the Twilight series and the books will always be special to me. I have to say, though, that I wasn't super excited to read this novella by Stephenie Meyer on The Second Short Life of Bree Tanner, when I first heard about it. One, because I know how it ends\u2026and well, it\u2019s not a happy ending, which is what I\u2019m al (4 Stars) (This review assumes one has read Eclipse) I actually liked this a lot more than I thought I would! It certainly kept me engaged and was a quick read. I am most definitely a fan of the Twilight series and the books will always be special to me. I have to say, though, that I wasn't super excited to read this novella by Stephenie Meyer on The Second Short Life of Bree Tanner, when I first heard about it. One, because I know how it ends\u2026and well, it\u2019s not a happy ending, which is what I\u2019m all about. Two, I wasn't sure I really wanted to read about the burning thirst and struggle of a newborn vampire. I admit to being a moody reader and I think this is a book you have to be in the \u201cright\u201d mood for. Having recently watched Eclipse, and enjoying the additions of the scenes of Riley and the newborns in the movie (which we don\u2019t get a perspective of in the book, Eclipse), I was definitely in the right frame of mind to read this. I appreciated getting this viewpoint of events that were behind-the-scenes in Eclipse, and I note some of the things in this book were included in the movie. It gave me a view into the creation and life of the newborn army, some insights into the Volturi, and a view of the Cullens and Bella from an outsider\u2019s POV. Not only that, I got to see through red eyes! ... which was actually rather violent, at times, as you would expect. One scene, in particular (of a mass feeding) was quite upsetting, reading it through my human eyes - for obvious reasons! *shudders* I really liked Bree, and Diego, and was intrigued by Fred (I definitely would have liked more Diego and Fred!). And there is really nothing more I can say without going into spoilers. I will say, though, that I felt sad at the end, even knowing what would happen. But I also felt okay with it. Not only because it wasn\u2019t unexpected, but because of how Bree approached the end. I will remember you, Bree, and I really wish things could have been different for you. Your life was not insignificant. I know I sound nuts talking as if fictional characters are real! *LOL* But that\u2019s what Stephenie Meyer\u2019s writing/stories, while not brilliant literature, does for me. Her characters feel like real people and she makes me care about them (even one that seemed so inconsequential, like Bree, who we saw for but a brief moment in Bella\u2019s life). And that\u2019s the experience I look for in my reading. \u201cI hope you end up caring about Bree as much as I do, though that\u2019s kind of a cruel wish. You know this: it doesn\u2019t end well for her. But at least you will know the whole story. And that no perspective is ever really trivial.\u201d - Introduction by Stephenie Meyer, The Second Short Life of Bree Tanner. I recommend this for fans of the series. And if you are a moody reader, like me, do yourself a favour and wait for the right \u201cmood\u201d. Though that's not to say that you will necessarily have a similar experience to me. After all, we all look through different eyes. P.S. I wish the book had been divided up into chapters. P.P.S. I\u2019m still holding out for more of my beloved Edward\u2019s perspective in Midnight Sun! ^_^ ...more I don't care what your thoughts about Twilight are. It will always have a special place in my heart because of all the memories connected to it. I only read the Twilight saga for the first time two or three years ago. The initial hype was well and truly over by the time I decide to brave the series and see where I stood. After reading the books, I am firmly in the belief that unless you have read this book than you don't really have the right to judge. There's so much hate surrounding this series, and I get it. I really do. There is some shifty things happening in this book, most of which I didn't support (teen pregnancy & romanticiz I only read the Twilight saga for the first time two or three years ago. The initial hype was well and truly over by the time I decide to brave the series and see where I stood. After reading the books, I am firmly in the belief that unless you have read this book than you don't really have the right to judge. There's so much hate surrounding this series, and I get it. I really do. There is some shifty things happening in this book, most of which I didn't support (teen pregnancy & romanticized abusive relationships being the main annoyances), but I, personally, don't think that you can judge a book from the assumptions you make about it without actually reading the book yourself. I may sound biased since I didn't think the actual plotline was as terrible as everyone made it out to be. Yes, Bella was a boring protagonist. Yes, Edward had boundary issues and needed to be taught what constitutes as 'romantic' and what crosses the lines into stalking. But despite my criticisms of the series' execution, when I first picked this series up I enjoyed them a lot more than I expected to. Since The Short Second Life of Bree Tanner is a little spin-off story to the Twilight saga that, objectively, doesn't shed any new light on the series in a ground-breaking way, it has gotten a lot of hate. Many people say that its publication is simply Stephenie Meyer \"milking the cash cow\", and I absolutely hate this expression. Cait @ Paper Fury wrote the most amazing and accurate discussion about why we criticise author for 'writing for money' when that's actually their job . But getting back on track, I thought that The Short Second Life of Bree Tanner was a fantastic read. There was an obvious spark in the writing, one that I would even say was missing from Twilight . I actually enjoyed reading from the character's (Bree) perspective compared to Bella, and thought she was a strong, resilient, brave, intelligent and somewhat adorable protagonist. The plotline was intriguing. I have absolutely no memory of New Moon , Eclipse and most of Breaking Dawn so none of the events of this story seemed rehashed to me, so I don't actually know how much of this happened in the original series and what was new, but it kept me engaged the whole time. The only thing that stopped for 100% loving this story was the fact that we don't know what happened to Diego (is that said in the original series? I don't know) and how boring the final battle scene was. ...more 3.5/5 CETTE REVIEW CONTIENT DES SPOILERS \u00ab J'esp\u00e8re que vous appr\u00e9cierez Bree autant que moi, m\u00eame si ce souhait est un peu cruel. Vous savez d\u00e9j\u00e0 que cela ne se termine pas bien pour elle. \u00bb -Stephenie Meyer D\u00e9j\u00e0 rien qu'en lisant la 'lettre' de Stephenie Meyer au d\u00e9but du livre, on sait que ce livre va nous faire souffrir. Mais apr\u00e8s tout, n'est-ce pas le but de tous les auteurs ? :') Plus s\u00e9rieusement, m\u00eame si on sait d\u00e8s le d\u00e9part (ayant d\u00e9j\u00e0 lu H\u00e9sitation ) que \u00e7a va mal finir pour Bree, je tr 3.5/5 CETTE REVIEW CONTIENT DES SPOILERS \u00ab J'esp\u00e8re que vous appr\u00e9cierez Bree autant que moi, m\u00eame si ce souhait est un peu cruel. Vous savez d\u00e9j\u00e0 que cela ne se termine pas bien pour elle. \u00bb -Stephenie Meyer D\u00e9j\u00e0 rien qu'en lisant la 'lettre' de Stephenie Meyer au d\u00e9but du livre, on sait que ce livre va nous faire souffrir. Mais apr\u00e8s tout, n'est-ce pas le but de tous les auteurs ? :') Plus s\u00e9rieusement, m\u00eame si on sait d\u00e8s le d\u00e9part (ayant d\u00e9j\u00e0 lu H\u00e9sitation ) que \u00e7a va mal finir pour Bree, je trouve qu'on ne peut s'emp\u00eacher de s'attacher \u00e0 elle. Je me rappelle que lors de ma premi\u00e8re lecture de ce livre, je ne pouvais m'emp\u00eacher d'esp\u00e9rer que \u00e7a finirai mieux pour elle. Je savais que ce ne serait pas le cas et pourtant, je ne pouvais m'emp\u00eacher d'esp\u00e9rer. Car je trouve que Bree est un personnage int\u00e9ressant et que le sort qui lui est r\u00e9serv\u00e9 est injuste. Elle n'est qu'une adolescente perdue qui n'a rien demand\u00e9 \u00e0 personne et se retrouve manipul\u00e9e et projet\u00e9e dans un monde d\u2019horreur qu'elle ne comprend m\u00eame pas. De plus, sa mort \u00e9tait compl\u00e8tement inutile. Quoi qu'il en soit et bien que ce livre soit court, j'ai appr\u00e9cier passer un peu de temps en compagnie de Bree. J'ai aussi aim\u00e9 d\u00e9couvrir des nouveaux personnages : Diego et Fred qui n'\u00e9taient pas pr\u00e9sents dans H\u00e9sitations vu qu'ils n'ont pas pris par \u00e0 la bataille (et puis, m\u00eame s'ils y avaient \u00e9t\u00e9, on en aurait pas su grand chose sur eux dans H\u00e9sitation). Bien que par certains aspects, Bree soit un personnage attachant, j'ai cependant trouv\u00e9 sa na\u00efvet\u00e9 d\u00e9concertante. Je comprends qu'elle n'ait pas voulu croire \u00e0 la mort de Diego ni l'accepter mais c'\u00e9tait tellement \u00e9vident !! De plus, cela rend sa mort encore plus inutile car si elle avait accept\u00e9 cette \u00e9vidence, elle aurait pu partir avec Fred et ne serait pas morte. J'ai vraiment appr\u00e9ci\u00e9 cette lecture et \u00e7a m'a rappel\u00e9 \u00e0 quel point Stephenie Meyer est agr\u00e9able \u00e0 lire. Apr\u00e8s la sortie du dernier film de la saga, j'avais \u00e9t\u00e9 tellement d\u00e9\u00e7u par ce film (s\u00e9rieusement, le coup du film qui n'est en fait que la vision d'Alice, c'\u00e9tait du grand n'importe quoi !!) que \u00e7a m'a d\u00e9gout\u00e9 de la sage et que j'ai fini par faire partie des gens qui d\u00e9testent cette saga. Cependant, relire ce livre m'a rappel\u00e9 que Stephenie Meyer \u00e9crit bien et m'a donn\u00e9 envie de donner une seconde chance \u00e0 sa saga que je relirais \u00e0 l'occasion. Pour conclure, j'ai appr\u00e9ci\u00e9 ce livre. Il \u00e9tait court, rapide et agr\u00e9able \u00e0 lire. C'est le genre de livre que je recommanderais pour venir \u00e0 bout d'une panne de lecture. En effet, il est rapide \u00e0 lire, bien \u00e9crit et ne demande pas de fournir le moindre 'effort'. ...more OK. If you like the Twilight Saga, you will probably like this book. <+++>The Short Second Life of Bree Tanner: An Eclipse Novella</+++> is a short book. 192 pages, double-spaced. It is a quick read. However, there are no chapter breaks, no breaks whatsoever. We know how the story ends. This book tells us how it began. Bree Tanner's story gives us insight as to what was happening in Seattle when Victoria and Riley were building their vampire army. Bree is one of the smarter \"newborns\" - she knows how to keep OK. If you like the Twilight Saga, you will probably like this book. <+++>The Short Second Life of Bree Tanner: An Eclipse Novella</+++> is a short book. 192 pages, double-spaced. It is a quick read. However, there are no chapter breaks, no breaks whatsoever. We know how the story ends. This book tells us how it began. Bree Tanner's story gives us insight as to what was happening in Seattle when Victoria and Riley were building their vampire army. Bree is one of the smarter \"newborns\" - she knows how to keep a low profile. She aligns herself with Diego, another \"smart newborn.\" Early on in the story, Bree realizes that Riley is not telling her the truth. There are a few characters that are worthy of mention. I loved Fred. I loved his quirky power. And Diego, oh the possibilities. Seeing the Cullens from Bree's point of view was also interesting. I found that Bree was very perceptive. Anyway, if you like Twilight, you'll like this. If you plan on seeing Eclipse at the movies, this will probably be something to read before the movie. (Note - book is online until first week of July www.breetanner.com ). ...more Well, I got this book today and devoured it in less than an hour and a half. I'm writing this review without having talked to anyone about it or reading any reviews online about it. I wanted to get my feelings out before being hearing or reading anyone else's opinion. I was fully prepared not to like this book, because I can't help thinking that Stephenie Meyer is just fleecing us, her woefully addicted fans. She hasn't pubished anything in nearly two years besides that pitifully meager \"bonus c Well, I got this book today and devoured it in less than an hour and a half. I'm writing this review without having talked to anyone about it or reading any reviews online about it. I wanted to get my feelings out before being hearing or reading anyone else's opinion. I was fully prepared not to like this book, because I can't help thinking that Stephenie Meyer is just fleecing us, her woefully addicted fans. She hasn't pubished anything in nearly two years besides that pitifully meager \"bonus chaper\" to The Host. For my thoughts on that, click here. S.M. will neither confirm or deny that The Host will be a trilogy and will not say what she's working on next, if anything. So yes, I have some issues. Movies are not the same as books. Movies are not enough to keep me satisfied. Most Twilight fans that I know like the movies because of the books, not the other way around. I can't help thinking that S.M. won't release another book until, say about a month or two before the Breaking Dawn movie comes out? Hmm? And I predict that she'll drag out the Twilight saga even more, giving us tiny morsels at a time. We know what she's doing, but like a kid being bribed with candy, we eat it up anyway. How about the story of Reneesme's life? Yes, I'd have to say that's my official S.M. prediction: no new books until a Breaking Dawn novella about Reneesme or one of the wolves. We'll get nothing more of Edward and Bella, and no totally new stories until after the Twilight mania has faded (if that ever happens). But I digress. On to The Short Second Life of Bree Tanner. If you haven't read the book yet, stop here because this is your official spoiler alert. We first meet Bree after she's been a vampire for three months. She has no vampire friends and hides behind Freaky Fred, the only talented vampire in Riley's coven. Fred can repel other vampires at will, thus making the fighting newborns, who kill each other at regular intervals, leave him alone. Bree makes friends with an older vampire, Diego and she wants to run away from the group with him once they find out that Riley has been lying to them. Bree has retained a human habit of reading---wait, that sounds familiar! I like reading about characters who like to read. I guess S.M. does too because she made Edward, Bella and Bree all readers. Interesting---don't you think she could have come up with another character development angle? Anyway, the book is written in typical S.M. style: lots of descriptions, feelings (Bree discovers her attraction to Diego in a really unexperienced way typical of a much younger girl), some weak plot elements, and more descriptions. The characters feel flat to me. Bree's life is just about surviving from hour to hour and quenching her unslakable thirst. I think that this is because S.M. develops her characters over hundreds of pages and we have only 178 pages here. Twihards will probably not like the book until we meet up with the Cullens on page 145. And then they will be enraged that the fight scene, surrender, and subsequent confrontation with the Volturi is maddeningly inadequate. With all that said, will I keep buying S.M.'s books? Of course. She can tell an enchanting story. Every time I read one of her books, I have to finish it in one sitting. I just can't put them down. Apparently, I'm not alone in these feelings or else the Twilight series would not have sold 226 million copies (according to wikianswers). Just One Gripe: See above. My most prominent gripe: After buying and reading this book, I feel cheated. Like I totally bought into the mania---and I didn't get a good love story in return. I knew that this would probably happen, but I still couldn't stop myself! Why is that? The Best Thing About This Book: I liked Fred. A lot. I also liked the little t\u00eate-\u00e0-t\u00eate between Bree and Edward. Oh, Edward. Even when I try not to like you, I just can't. You are the first vampire I ever fell in love with. Though there have been others (Eric Northman from the Sookie Stackhouse series, Kisten from the Rachel Morgan series, to say nothing of JR Ward's Black Dagger Brotherhood vamps) you'll always be first. See??? I'm an addict along with millions of other women---look at how distracted I get just by a description of Edward's hair and the way he holds on to Bella. Sigh. Appropriate for a younger audience: Probably---it's no more graphic than the fight scene in Eclipse. Score: Characters: 2/5 Plot: 2/5 Setting/Imagery: 2/5 Originality: 2/5 Ending: 2/5 Total Score: 10/25; 2 stars ...more Say what you will about Stephenie Meyer, but she obviously has SOME sort of talent/method/magical fairy dust in order to write stories that get people hooked and make them react (whether positively/negatively doesn't really matter -- her stories garner very intense reactions). I fell in love with the Twilight books and harbored a cheesy adoration of the movies as well, though my fangirlishness came a little late to the game as I'd been turned off of vampire lore by all the Anne Rice books (happy Say what you will about Stephenie Meyer, but she obviously has SOME sort of talent/method/magical fairy dust in order to write stories that get people hooked and make them react (whether positively/negatively doesn't really matter -- her stories garner very intense reactions). I fell in love with the Twilight books and harbored a cheesy adoration of the movies as well, though my fangirlishness came a little late to the game as I'd been turned off of vampire lore by all the Anne Rice books (happy to say that my eyes have been opened since then and now I enjoy quite a few different series in the vampire genre). Lately, though, I've found myself doubting my love of Stephenie Meyer. It really is hard to be a Twilight fan in a world where Stephenie Meyer gets little respect. I also don't really like to be lumped into the giggling gaggle of girls that make up the \"twi-hards\". So to be honest, I wasn't terribly excited about The Short Second Life of Bree Tanner. I didn't remember the character of Bree and it's been long enough since reading Eclipse that I don't really remember the whole scene where her character shows up in Eclipse. But the novella made its way onto my Kindle and I thought, hey, it's a 200 page guilty pleasure, might as well give it a try. I figured I'd get a ways in and give up, uninterested. Meanwhile, 2 hours later, I finished the whole thing in one sitting and found my faith in Stephenie Meyer and the world she's created renewed. It's such a simple story, and when you really think about it, not much happens in the story, but in those 200 pages, Meyer is able to bring to life Bree Tanner and make you care about her -- no, LOVE her, and Diego...and Fred. Oh, Fred. How I adore him. I hope he is, to this day, frolicking and repulsing people in Vancouver and parts unknown. Moreover, I sincerely hope that Fred makes another appearance sometime in the future. Reading this novella has left me feeling excited for the Eclipse movie coming out, as well as feeling a bit sad about Bree and Diego (even though one knows the outcome going into the story). I also really, sincerely hope that Meyer will continue exploring this whole universe she's created -- just like after reading Breaking Dawn, I want to know more about the vamps with (as Diego put it) \"skillzzzzz\", I want to know more about the individual tribes of vamps, I want to know more about the Volturi... I just want to know more! Love her, or hate her, anyone who is able to create such a compelling world deserves her place in our culture. Thank you, Stephenie Meyer, for reminding me of that. ...more Oh good lord, this is awful. I don't know if I can finish it (currently at 19 pages), and that's even reading it at work to avoid end of financial year accounting reports. All the talk about the Hulk and Spider-man, 'BBFs' and calling Bree 'girl', is absolutely appalling. Apart from sounding stupid it doesn't even seem naturally used. All the writing seems jilted as if they talk exactly the same - don't these people have personalities at all? I'm amused as to how this book was written to give us a Oh good lord, this is awful. I don't know if I can finish it (currently at 19 pages), and that's even reading it at work to avoid end of financial year accounting reports. All the talk about the Hulk and Spider-man, 'BBFs' and calling Bree 'girl', is absolutely appalling. Apart from sounding stupid it doesn't even seem naturally used. All the writing seems jilted as if they talk exactly the same - don't these people have personalities at all? I'm amused as to how this book was written to give us an idea of the villains, and yet Bree is as good as she can be. Uh, what's the point then? 'Walking disco balls'. My god. 'Super secret ninja club'. While I could almost accept Bree and Diego suddenly hanging out together, the kissing and hugging makes it unbelievable. Why does he say they need to be careful to get the right coven? I thought they said they were the ONLY coven there, and that's why the other was attacking them thinking it would be easy to own the whole area. Though I probably missed something in that regard. I must confess I'm not really reading anymore. Just skimming. Why couldn't she smell the werewolves/shapeshifters, if they smell OH SO TERRIBLE to vampires? Though I guess if she doesn't know they exist... but she'd still smell them, I'd think. OH GOOD GOD, THANK GOD THAT'S OVER. MY GOD. ...more Well, it was a quick and slightly entertaining read if nothing else. Finished it in a couple of hours and was glad I didn't pay a dime for it because I know how Bree's story ends. It was mildly interesting to read Meyer's vampire world from a different perspective, but I still would have preferred that she finished Midnight Sun rather than this novella. I want to say this story makes me miss Twilight, but when you know where the story is eventually going to head, I just don\u2019t find myself there y Well, it was a quick and slightly entertaining read if nothing else. Finished it in a couple of hours and was glad I didn't pay a dime for it because I know how Bree's story ends. It was mildly interesting to read Meyer's vampire world from a different perspective, but I still would have preferred that she finished Midnight Sun rather than this novella. I want to say this story makes me miss Twilight, but when you know where the story is eventually going to head, I just don\u2019t find myself there yet. Not a great investment of time, but not a complete waste either. If you can get it for free and have a couple of hours to waste\u2026 go for it. ...more Good grief, it's another barrel! And I can hear noises coming from inside it too. Well, now I know what to expect. I'll sneak up quietly, then CERIDWEN PUT IT DOWN NOW AND STOP TORTURING THAT POOR FISH! I SAID NOW!! KEEP YOUR HANDS... Oh. I'm, ah, I'm really sorry Ms. Meyer. I, er, I thought you were a friend of mine, it's a bit complicated. Honestly, I do apologise. No, I can see that, you're quite right of course, there is no fish there. My mistake. So, um, could I ask what it is you're doing i Good grief, it's another barrel! And I can hear noises coming from inside it too. Well, now I know what to expect. I'll sneak up quietly, then CERIDWEN PUT IT DOWN NOW AND STOP TORTURING THAT POOR FISH! I SAID NOW!! KEEP YOUR HANDS... Oh. I'm, ah, I'm really sorry Ms. Meyer. I, er, I thought you were a friend of mine, it's a bit complicated. Honestly, I do apologise. No, I can see that, you're quite right of course, there is no fish there. My mistake. So, um, could I ask what it is you're doing in there? If you can forgive me for being so rude just now? Ah, I see, scraping. Well of course you are, I don't know what's wrong with me today. I must say you're doing a splendid job, the bottom looks as clean as... well... pretty clean. I'm impressed. What? Did you say try some ? Is it, like, some kind of beauty treatment? I'm supposed to smear it on my... no, wait a minute. You aren't really suggesting that. I must have misunderstood you. Um.. yes, I am British. But what's that got to do with... yes, I do eat Marmite. I had some on my toast for breakfast just this morning. So why are you... WHAT!? That can't be right. You don't honestly mean they make it out of... um... look, it's been great talking to you, but I don't feel very well. I've got to go. I think that's a bathroom over there. No, of course not, nothing to do with your book. I just better say goodbye before I... BLEUAGHHHHH!!! ...more oh man. this was so bad. it's about a minor character who exists solely to get killed in Eclipse to show how ruthless the vampire government is. you already know what's gonna happen, which is a difficult starting point to begin with, and Meyer just doesn't have the skill to make it swing on the page. anyway. ~*~*~SPOILER~*~*~ the Volturi kill Bree -- not because she eats people, but because she's a loose end. it's sad, I guess. the Cullens sort of flail ineffectually but don't make a serious att oh man. this was so bad. it's about a minor character who exists solely to get killed in Eclipse to show how ruthless the vampire government is. you already know what's gonna happen, which is a difficult starting point to begin with, and Meyer just doesn't have the skill to make it swing on the page. anyway. ~*~*~SPOILER~*~*~ the Volturi kill Bree -- not because she eats people, but because she's a loose end. it's sad, I guess. the Cullens sort of flail ineffectually but don't make a serious attempt to stop it. ok, this is the main thing that gets me about Twilight, and I think it's because nobody ever talks about it: what is the deal with the Cullens being all self-satisfied in their \"vegetarianism\" but never ever doing a goddamn thing about the fucked-up shit other vampires do? They tut-tut but they never devote any of their considerable talents to anything other than getting rich and staying out of trouble. I mean, at the end of New Moon , Edward and Bella witness a mass murder and don't appear to be outraged or anything. just a bit grossed out and scared. At the end of the Twilight sequence, it becomes clear that the Cullen clan have a significant power base. if they're so moral, why don't they try to leverage some of that power into, say, building an alliance with the werewolves to force vampires to stop eating people? or researching synthetic blood? you see where I'm going? but there's no hint of any of that. and I think that cuts to the heart of what makes Twilight so fucking icky. its morality is restricted to the protection of the individual's soul. it's not about ending suffering and oppression -- it's about making sure you don't directly perpetuate it. in short, it's about keeping pure, not doing good, and it exemplifies the worst of conservative Christian morality. ...more i just saw this while browsing recommendations and realized i forgot to mark on goodreads that i've read this. sorry if this randomly comes up in your newsfeed LOL RIP diego 3 I enjoyed twilight long ago when I read all the books, and so I thought that justified reading this book. I have to say though, I am incredibly disappointed. Perhaps I have just grown out of the storyline and my tastes have changed, but I found this book incredibly childish. I also wish that this had been more original. It seems typical of Stephanie Meyer to just write the same ole story, just from another persons point-of-view. It would have possibly been better if Bree showed at least an inkli I enjoyed twilight long ago when I read all the books, and so I thought that justified reading this book. I have to say though, I am incredibly disappointed. Perhaps I have just grown out of the storyline and my tastes have changed, but I found this book incredibly childish. I also wish that this had been more original. It seems typical of Stephanie Meyer to just write the same ole story, just from another persons point-of-view. It would have possibly been better if Bree showed at least an inkling of rabid newborn vampire ferocity. She was just...a lame little child! She didn't show us any vampire tendencies that were not typical of the ones we (as in those of us who have read the previous books) have already encountered. Action...that is what this book desperately needed. Why pick a character who really has no significance to retell the story? Is it to punish everyone for the leaking of Midnight Sun? I gave this two stars for at least being readable, but I do feel as if I was undergoing an unusual form of punishment. Kissy noises...really? Are we in Elementary? I thought this was targeted for a Young Adult audience?!? ...more I didn't enjoy this book as much as the others in the series, however I wasn't expecting much from an under-200-pages novella. I still enjoy Meyer's writing style and I'm looking forward to reading Breaking Dawn.", "Title": "The Short Second Life of Bree Tanner: An Eclipse Novella"},
