{"Comments": "I wish I could put an additional star on the rating system for this book. Why you ask? Because it really isn't a Jewish Da Vinci Code but the concept is similar. It's got it's own oomph and it's own thriller-paced addiction. I really didn't know what I was getting into when I found myself with this book in my hands. I really wasn't even expecting to find it all that interesting: 1/ because I haven't a clue about anything Jewish really, and 2/ because I get \"Are you Jewish?\" too often and find it I wish I could put an additional star on the rating system for this book. Why you ask? Because it really isn't a Jewish Da Vinci Code but the concept is similar. It's got it's own oomph and it's own thriller-paced addiction. I really didn't know what I was getting into when I found myself with this book in my hands. I really wasn't even expecting to find it all that interesting: 1/ because I haven't a clue about anything Jewish really, and 2/ because I get \"Are you Jewish?\" too often and find it irritating because I'm adopted and for all I know I could be Jewish--by ethnicity not by faith, if you get me...<---F> Ok, back to the book</---F>. THE TORAH CODES is really fascinating, and no offense but I skipped the prologue for the end, after I read Ezra's Facts section actually to be exact. The opener scenes were exactly what a thriller's opener scenes should be... little bit of thrill,<---M> little bit of funny</---M>, and a whole lot of \"WTF, MATE?!\" Cause to be quite honest we don't know anything, the characters don't know anything and to pretend that we do or read that THEY do ALREADY would be ... well fake. This was genuinely funny, thrilling and WTF all rolled into ... what three scenes within the first chapter. Point, blank, sold. I was falling in love with Ezra's bipolar nutcase of a MC from that very first chapter... Why? I guess I have a soft spot for special people... *clears throat* Anyway, I loved the book. I am not a genre specific reader but my main focus usually is Children's and Young Adult's... But I am glad that I read this book.... and plan to reread it a few more times for additional kicks... Bonus: As I read this on the plane to Wisconsin a while ago, I was asked about it from a fellow passenger - I was only like maybe a third the way through and I was already raving about it to this guy I didn't know and his entire family standing by all of them nodding to my excitement over this BOOK. Call me crazy.... Dooooo It. I dare ya, and then READ THIS BOOK! :) ...more I\u2019m a Catholic but that doesn\u2019t stop me from reading <+++>The Torah Codes</+++> by <---A>Ezra Barany</---A> there are some parts at the beginning of the book that lost me but I eventually found my way back to digest lots of random rants,things that doesn\u2019t make sense at first but I truly enjoyed some other side quest along the way to the truth which greatly entertained and filled me with knowledge and awareness. I\u2019m not really good at deciphering codes,solving mysteries and such I'm often stumped/clueless it took me lo I\u2019m a Catholic but that doesn\u2019t stop me from reading <+++>The Torah Codes</+++> by Ezra Barany there are some parts at the beginning of the book that lost me but I eventually found my way back to digest lots of random rants,things that doesn\u2019t make sense at first but I truly enjoyed some other side quest along the way to the truth which greatly entertained and filled me with knowledge and awareness. I\u2019m not really good at deciphering codes,solving mysteries and such I'm often stumped/clueless it took me lots of time and great amount of effort to even decode one thing I guess most of us do..I can so relate on each and every characters dilemma as I move on with the rest of the story I found out that the protagonist Nathan is a bit paranoid and bi-polar,an intelligent guy, earned some good money for a living,odd sense of humor, freakin hilarious and Sophia who depends most of her life decisions and earnings in her favorite tarot decks which are most of the time true! shocking I know..as I read and journeyed along with them all those lies,mysteries,superstitions,card readings,revelations,spiritual calling,quest and missions of the secret society lurking about that took years in the making to accomplish has all enlightened me! It also made me appreciate more all kinds of religions, our diverse nature and culture. This confirms and correlates each aspect of things in life.The antagonist Luke McCourt he's really quite nice..yet creepy in a way that goes well in the cycle along with other team members I got so caught up with all his lies during his train conversation with Sophia I almost believed him. I like the fact page at the end of the book which separates it from fiction plus the essays from very highly respected individuals on their field.I love the gadget that was made for the greater good I\u2019d like that to exist in reality so that would solve power shortage,world crisis,anything! I'd also like to see more of Nathan and Sophia to know up to where their brewing love would take them. All in all no matter what religion we\u2019re in the God we all worship and glorify is in fact the same one and only God we just call him/her differently, takes form in lots of ways, there\u2019s a little bit of God within us all we have to do is find out. I won and received this book for free through goodreads first reads.Thank you so much ^_^ ...more I enjoyed reading this book, it\u2019s one that most Dan Brown fans will really enjoy. The main character, Nathan, a bipolar programmer, is a fresh voice. He is witty without being annoying and many of his thoughts made me laugh out loud at the nuttiness that was is his thought process. The rest of the characters are not particularly memorable, but they do keep the plot moving forward without boring the reader. The plot is similar in pacing to the DaVinci Code, trying its best to stay moving forward, I enjoyed reading this book, it\u2019s one that most Dan Brown fans will really enjoy. The main character, Nathan, a bipolar programmer, is a fresh voice. He is witty without being annoying and many of his thoughts made me laugh out loud at the nuttiness that was is his thought process. The rest of the characters are not particularly memorable, but they do keep the plot moving forward without boring the reader. The plot is similar in pacing to the DaVinci Code, trying its best to stay moving forward, but made a bit confusing by the quick exchange of information that the characters seem to understand as soon as it\u2019s uttered. It can be seem a bit unbelievable at times, but, unlike Brown\u2019s overbearing book, this one keeps the mood light. I must nitpick on one issue, though. Sophia, the main female character, is a Tarot card reader, which although an interesting twist to add, I would have liked the real meanings of the cards to have been used, not strange ones that are never used. As a Tarot reader myself, it was hard to swallow the twisted meanings of cards that are just as important to a religion as the Torah is to the Jewish community. It is a bit picky, I know, but it is what struck me. This however, probably won\u2019t affect the majority of the audience, so it\u2019s definitely not something that should deter anyone from reading the book. The essays that accompany the story are fascinating and definitely something to consider when purchasing the book. This is a fun, quick-paced story that will not disappoint. ...more This was described to me as sort of a Jewish Da Vinci Code and, truth be told, that was enough to get me interested. Nathan discovers that his landlord is spying on him, his name (<---B>and several other things</---B>) are encoded in a certain book of the Torah, and several people are after him for some weird and vaguely religious reason. Okay, so maybe my synopsis isn\u2019t a good sell, but the fact is that I plowed through this book in record time. Nathan is likable and often very funny, and the action kept me This was described to me as sort of a Jewish Da Vinci Code and, truth be told, that was enough to get me interested. Nathan discovers that his landlord is spying on him, his name (and several other things) are encoded in a certain book of the Torah, and several people are after him for some weird and vaguely religious reason. Okay, so maybe my synopsis isn\u2019t a good sell, but the fact is that I plowed through this book in record time. Nathan is likable and often very funny, and the action kept me turning the pages. Do I believe prophecy is encoded in the Torah? Doesn\u2019t matter. It was fun and crazy and I look forward to Barany\u2019s next thriller. Confession time: I did not read the essays in the appendix. I hear they\u2019re quite good and well worth reading, but I was just in it for the story, not the religious speculation. ...more Is the Bible\u2014that is to say, are the first five books of it\u2014prophetically encoded? The implications that arise from such a question ought to (although they won\u2019t; we all know they won\u2019t) provoke far more widespread spiritual introspection and serious religious debate than the argument over whether Jesus of Nazareth lived to a ripe old age in the South of France, making babies with Mary Magdalene. Ezra Barany's homage to Dan Brown opens us to speculations on subjects as diverse, and as intimately Is the Bible\u2014that is to say, are the first five books of it\u2014prophetically encoded? The implications that arise from such a question ought to (although they won\u2019t; we all know they won\u2019t) provoke far more widespread spiritual introspection and serious religious debate than the argument over whether Jesus of Nazareth lived to a ripe old age in the South of France, making babies with Mary Magdalene. Ezra Barany's homage to Dan Brown opens us to speculations on subjects as diverse, and as intimately related, as the availability of free energy from the fabric of space-time and the nature of the divine feminine. My full review is available at http://www.berkshirefinearts.com/05-2... ...more This book is interesting on many levels. I t is , of course, a page turner! But more importantly it demands a second & third reading, so far. Who knows after this third which I'm in the midst, maybe more. Most importantly It's a fun READ, & the author is having fun, as well! I'm not going to rehash the book plot as there is a good description at the top of this page. That said... Oh where to start? This is one of those books that when finished you think, \"Well crap. What will I read now?\" It is so good that it begs to be pondered on awhile before diving into the next good read. Plenty of moments that make you pause and reflect. I have always believed and teach my child that science and faith need not be at odds. I love science! Science put me MORE IN AWE of our Creat I'm not going to rehash the book plot as there is a good description at the top of this page. That said... Oh where to start? This is one of those books that when finished you think, \"Well crap. What will I read now?\" It is so good that it begs to be pondered on awhile before diving into the next good read. Plenty of moments that make you pause and reflect. I have always believed and teach my child that science and faith need not be at odds. I love science! Science put me MORE IN AWE of our Creator. I've been fascinated with the Torah Codes for a few years now...truly It is living text! Multi layered text! The book of life. I love Torah! The characters in this book are easy to latch on to...I particularly like how the wheels in Nathan's mind turn. Suspensful read. My only complaint is I finished it too soon. The author of this gem is truly talented and I look forward to a sequel!! (This is excellent movie material!!!) What are you waiting on??? READ THIS BOOK!! Hats off to Barany for a goodread! ...more I won this book from a Goodreads giveaway. I won't go into the plot as the summary is stated above, but I thoroughly enjoyed this book. The book is fast paced and there is never a dull moment. The characters were well-written and believable especially Nathan, who is a very funny guy that I have caught myself laughing to his thoughts and comments. I also liked Sophia because she was a strong woman that helped Nathan find his way. I liked the concept of decoding things and did I mention how creepy I won this book from a Goodreads giveaway. I won't go into the plot as the summary is stated above, but I thoroughly enjoyed this book. The book is fast paced and there is never a dull moment. The characters were well-written and believable especially Nathan, who is a very funny guy that I have caught myself laughing to his thoughts and comments. I also liked Sophia because she was a strong woman that helped Nathan find his way. I liked the concept of decoding things and did I mention how creepy it is to find your name encoded in something. I did find myself getting lost sometimes in the theories that were being explained but I searched them up to have a better understanding of it, so I actually learned some things from reading this book! Definitely pick up this book, you won't regret it! P.S. I found myself checking my own mirrors to make sure no one is spying on me. I must be getting paranoid....heh... ...more Overall I really enjoyed the novel and it has a Dan brown feel about it. The characters were well thought out and all had a purpose within the novel. I was hooked from the first page and could not put this book down for anything. The actual story within the book is only 200 pages long, The rest of the book contains essays by various authors on Bible codes and Torah codes. This section should not be missed it was really enjoyable and some interesting points were raised. The appendix should not be Overall I really enjoyed the novel and it has a Dan brown feel about it. The characters were well thought out and all had a purpose within the novel. I was hooked from the first page and could not put this book down for anything. The actual story within the book is only 200 pages long, The rest of the book contains essays by various authors on Bible codes and Torah codes. This section should not be missed it was really enjoyable and some interesting points were raised. The appendix should not be missed either it was enjoyable and should not be skipped. The author is donating a portion of the book sales to the San Francisco Bay Area Jewish Schools. A good book and helping a good cause is a winning combination! For more information on the author and his book, visit his website at: The Torah Codes A copy of this book was received for free and all opinions are my own through reading this book. This review was first published on http://everybookhasasoul.wordpress.com ...more A wonderful read, filled with action and intrigue, mystery and mysticism. Made me want to go find my own name encoded in the Torah! The Torah Codes \u2013 Review by Martha A. Cheves, Author of Stir, Laugh, Repeat \u2018I needed to walk around someone, so I had to step on the dirt of one of the tree plots that lined the street. As I stepped on the soft dirt, my heart grew cold. I nearly threw up. A body had been cut up and recently buried underneath the dirt. A man with dark hair, a pin-striped suit, a golden wedding ring on his finger. I knew this. I knew this like I knew my own name. There was nothing to indicate such a thing. A milli The Torah Codes \u2013 Review by Martha A. Cheves, Author of Stir, Laugh, Repeat \u2018I needed to walk around someone, so I had to step on the dirt of one of the tree plots that lined the street. As I stepped on the soft dirt, my heart grew cold. I nearly threw up. A body had been cut up and recently buried underneath the dirt. A man with dark hair, a pin-striped suit, a golden wedding ring on his finger. I knew this. I knew this like I knew my own name. There was nothing to indicate such a thing. A million reasons could be given for why the dirt was soft. But I knew there as a body down there. And that I was next\u2026\u2019 \u2018My eyes voted for the bed. Two hours later, it was 8:12 p.m. and I realized I hadn\u2019t let my bladder vote. I headed for the bathroom and turned on the light. My eyes complained. I turned off the light. I leaned against the mirror above the sink and reassured them that the light was off and that they could now open again. I opened my eyes expecting the typical picture: round face, brown hair, brown eyes, long neck, but all close up since my forehead was leaning on the mirror. But it wasn\u2019t myself I saw. I saw a room. A room filled with cameras. Photos were taped to the wall. I cupped my hands to the mirror and saw the room more clearly. All the cameras were pointed straight at me. But the room was dark and no one was there.\u2019 Nathan is bi-polar and when he gets busy and forgets to take his meds he does have a tendency to imagine things. Could this be one of those times? The best thing for him to do is get out of his landlord's duplex and find a place where he is safe. But that\u2019s kind of hard when no matter where he goes he feels someone is following. Someone wants to harm him. Then he runs into Sophia as she gives tarot readings at a table set up outside a bookstore. Nathan invites Sophia back to his apartment but not for what she thinks. He wants her to look into the mirror to assure him he isn\u2019t hallucinating. And after confirming that what he sees is real, she talks him into going to the police. As the police search the owner of the unit next to Nathan\u2019s they discover pictures of not only him in the unit but of him on the outside as well as pictures of his mother and father while on their honeymoon. But why? How? He only knows the owner of the unit, who is also his landlord, due to renting from him. He had never met him prior to renting the unit. In The Torah Codes Nathan\u2019s travels take him to a Rabbi who explains how the codes are actually a part of the Bible. He makes Nathan aware that there are 36 people who are directly connected to the codes and he, as well as Sophia, are apparently connected in some way. Then he meets the creator of MEG (Motionless Electromagnetic Generator) making the puzzle even more confusing. This becomes just the beginning, as his journey leads him to Israel in search of answers. So, are the Codes real? In The Torah Codes, Author Ezra Barany has included some very interesting statistics that will make the mind wonder. At least it did mine. 2011 375 pages Dafkah Books ISBN# 978-0-9832960-1-0 Review Stir, Laugh, Repeat at Amazon.com Stir, Laugh, Repeat ...more Bravo Mr. Barany. The Torah Codes is a very well written book with a great story line. Nathan is being watched, and he doesn't like it one bit. You can feel the tension that builds in him as he runs into the arms of Sophia. The bond that they form, and the way they decode the letter/problems/issues that Nathan is dealing with is so easy to slip into. The story seamlessly falls into place without being easy to figure out. I had two problems with this book: 1. There were too many POV changes in one ch Bravo Mr. Barany. The Torah Codes is a very well written book with a great story line. Nathan is being watched, and he doesn't like it one bit. You can feel the tension that builds in him as he runs into the arms of Sophia. The bond that they form, and the way they decode the letter/problems/issues that Nathan is dealing with is so easy to slip into. The story seamlessly falls into place without being easy to figure out. I had two problems with this book: 1. There were too many POV changes in one chapter without giving you a warning. You're reading in Nathan's mind and then suddenly you are reading in the screwy landlords mind. That kinda drove me crazy, or maybe it was just a short put. 2. Formatting. I know - it's such a small thing. But the bigger letters starting the paragraph on my Kindle threw the whole screen off for me. I would have preferred it all be in the same size font. ...more Full review posted at ScienceThrillers (no star rating given for indies): Summary: (religious/mystical thriller with minor tech elements) Nathan Yirmorshy, a reclusive computer programmer, finds his life turned upside down when he realizes his landlord is spying on him. Soon Nathan learns the landlord has been watching not only him, but his parents, for decades, and is part of a violent secret religious society. With a rabbi\u2019s help Nathan finds his name\u2013and possibly his fate\u2013written in secret co Full review posted at ScienceThrillers (no star rating given for indies): Summary: (religious/mystical thriller with minor tech elements) Nathan Yirmorshy, a reclusive computer programmer, finds his life turned upside down when he realizes his landlord is spying on him. Soon Nathan learns the landlord has been watching not only him, but his parents, for decades, and is part of a violent secret religious society. With a rabbi\u2019s help Nathan finds his name\u2013and possibly his fate\u2013written in secret codes in ancient scripture, along with the name of a young tarot card fortune teller he just met. Set primarily in Berkeley and Oakland, California. Lengthy collection of expert commentaries provided at the end of the book. Review: The Torah Codes was pitched to me as a Jewish Da Vinci Code with some science in it. While it does have some plot related to the Divine Feminine, this thriller isn\u2019t a series of globetrotting puzzles to be solved; it\u2019s more intimate, focused on a hunted man in his home city. It has more typical mystery elements than elaborate riddles (hidden cameras, secret identities, breaking and entering, etc.) The primary riddle/mystery revolves around prophecies hidden in precisely replicated copies of ancient Hebrew biblical texts; these mysteries are investigated using computer algorithms, but interpretation of what the results mean is up to the humans. STRENGTHS: Author Ezra Barany has a wonderful ability to turn a phrase, and the copy editing of this book is superb. For readers intrigued in numerology and prophecy hidden in ancient texts, The Torah Codes provides an interesting story. Main characters Nathan and Sophia are engaging and have some depth, especially Nathan with his poorly-controlled mental illness and wonderful first person voice. The mystery of why Nathan is being followed, what his mysterious pursuers want, and whether he is indeed part of a biblical prophecy, keep the reader turning pages. Cool scene where Nathan uses chemistry to try to scare off his pursuers. WEAKNESSES: I found parts of the plot confusing, and several questions were left unanswered even at the end (where did Nathan get his money? who sent the anonymous letter about MEG and the Bible? why was the one guy allowed to live? why was it so hard to find investors for Meg?) The science content was less than I hoped. Isaac Newton makes a cameo appearance in the prologue, which got me excited, but the main character Nathan\u2019s ideas about brain waves as a kind of light is parapsychology, not science. While the chemistry/sabotage scene is fun, I was distracted by concerns about mercury exposure. The MEG device is science fiction\u2013cool scifi\u2013but doesn\u2019t really fit into the central themes of the story. Overall: An easy read for thriller fans who are interested in numerology or Jewish mysticism. An entertaining way to introduce yourself to what the torah codes are and the question of whether they are real, with plenty of material in the appendices to explore this theme. Oakland/Berkeley setting may appeal to those with local knowledge of the area. ...more This is a very funny, fast-paced book. You can't compare it to the DaVinci Code; this book doesn't have the historical depth, but it does have humor! The main character, Nathan, doesn't really use the codes to do anything. They are not keys that help him unlock the (really crazy) mystery. The codes are more like a zesty spice that adds a bit of thrill. Does the author really believe that the energy of an atomic bomb comes from a single, individual atom? This put me off a bit, but it fits well wi This is a very funny, fast-paced book. You can't compare it to the DaVinci Code; this book doesn't have the historical depth, but it does have humor! The main character, Nathan, doesn't really use the codes to do anything. They are not keys that help him unlock the (really crazy) mystery. The codes are more like a zesty spice that adds a bit of thrill. Does the author really believe that the energy of an atomic bomb comes from a single, individual atom? This put me off a bit, but it fits well with the overall scenario; the bizarre setup that Nathan builds to scare his landlord, a not very-well thought-out trip to the airport, and a perpetual motion machine. Oh--and how Nathan finds the perpetual motion machine, because he has totally misinterpreted the clues! I especially enjoy fiction with unanticipated surprises. This book certainly fits the bill! ...more This is a fast-paced page-turner with quirky protagonists. The plot stretches credibility, but it is fine as an escapist read, and displays quite a bit of humor amidst the suspense. Some of the descriptions are quite well written. It is set in Oakland and Haifa. I enjoyed this book - it was a bit of a page turner. I was just a bit disappointed with the ending. This was an amazing book, intelligently written with an interesting story line. Highly recommended. Good, fast paced adventure. Definitely makes you think about things in a new light. I can't help but chortle at the title/premise. At least it's not another Fifty Shades ripoff?? I got this book because I love the archaeology/suspense genre that tie back to ancient happenings or artifacts. This book calls on the equidistant codes that some researchers have discovered in the Torah. I was really looking forward to reading this since I had read The Bible Code by Michael Drosnin several years ago. Nathan is a bipolar computer programmer. He learns, by chance, that his landlord has him under surveillance. After leaving his apartment he meets a Tarot card reader and decides to I got this book because I love the archaeology/suspense genre that tie back to ancient happenings or artifacts. This book calls on the equidistant codes that some researchers have discovered in the Torah. I was really looking forward to reading this since I had read The Bible Code by Michael Drosnin several years ago. Nathan is a bipolar computer programmer. He learns, by chance, that his landlord has him under surveillance. After leaving his apartment he meets a Tarot card reader and decides to spend a little time getting a reading while he decides what to do about the cameras. They call the police. Nathan and Sophia then follow some clues to the Torah Codes and consult a rabbi. The rabbi uses his computer program and finds Nathan's name encoded there. Nathan and Sophia are also led to an inventor of ... guess you could call it a perpetual energy machine. Up to this point the book was enjoyable and interesting - when it talked about the codes. It became slightly dissatisfying when the reason for the surveillance was revealed. The story just seemed to break down and the resolution was over too quickly. This section could have really been expanded into something great but it failed. The invention segment was interesting but didn't add much to the overall story. It was a nice side story but could have been omitted without a loss. A little hint at the end suggests Sophia will be back again in another book. I will read it but hope it tells a better tale. ...more Strange, weird, bizarre and eccentric. First of all, this fictional book is not based on the Jewish faith but is based on jewish myths and lineage. I did not like the main character Nathan, although he was comical in his bipolar sort of way. It is curious to me that by the end of the book that he is some how promoted as a good and righteous person, even though he's not. It is presented that the reason for this \"goodness\" is because of his acts of charity in providing safe water to drink for thos Strange, weird, bizarre and eccentric. First of all, this fictional book is not based on the Jewish faith but is based on jewish myths and lineage. I did not like the main character Nathan, although he was comical in his bipolar sort of way. It is curious to me that by the end of the book that he is some how promoted as a good and righteous person, even though he's not. It is presented that the reason for this \"goodness\" is because of his acts of charity in providing safe water to drink for those who previously did not have it. Throughout the book it is shown that he has no moral compass and even scoffs and sneers at talk about God. I also thought the whole thing about his birth lineage was weird too{part Jewish and possibly part descendant of a pope}.The whole story about the pope was just too weird. Speaking of weird and bizaare, that ridiculous creature called Sophia, yuck. I really didnt like that character at all. She was acting like she was demonicly possessed but the characters in the story were acting like they didnt notice this. Nathans acts of \"goodness\" have no mention in being motivated by God and yet scripture plainly tells us that; Only God is truely good. But when you belong to God, His goodness permeates through those who love Him. Nathan definately did not have any love of God within him, so what motivated his acts of charity? The author never explains this. ...more Very interesting book. It mixes fact within a fictional novel setting. There are those who live the prophecy and those who force or try to manipulate the prophecies to fit their own interpretations. What would you do if you discovered your name encoded in the Torah? The last section of the book was especially interesting to me. It advised one not to try to predict the future based on Torah code search input. Would we really want to know the future if it were available? Perhaps. It would be fun t Very interesting book. It mixes fact within a fictional novel setting. There are those who live the prophecy and those who force or try to manipulate the prophecies to fit their own interpretations. What would you do if you discovered your name encoded in the Torah? The last section of the book was especially interesting to me. It advised one not to try to predict the future based on Torah code search input. Would we really want to know the future if it were available? Perhaps. It would be fun to have a copy of this Torah computer search program but one must understand ancient Hebrew linguistics to interpret any discoveries correctly and even then it would be easy to make mistakes as the author astutely points out and explains why. I have often wondered if intelligence actually experiences eternal rounds and if we knew we would experience a forgetting, would we try to encode important historical hinge events in different ways through gifted and spiritually sensitive prophets so we could avoid the pitfalls and life changing errors in the next round? It would be fascinating to say the least. It was informative and I enjoyed reading it and where it took my thought process because I do believe in a pre-existence and after-mortality existence. ...more The Torah Codes is a little bit of mystery, religion, manipulation, delusion and a whole lot of fun to read. The story is centered around Nathan, a programer, and Sophie, a tarot card reader. Nathan finds that he is being watched by his landlord. In a twist of fate, he has his future read by Sophie. He takes her back to his house to confirm what he thinks he has seen. Nathan is bipolar and wants to make sure that he actually saw what he thinks he saw. M.E.G is thrown in for a side story that com The Torah Codes is a little bit of mystery, religion, manipulation, delusion and a whole lot of fun to read. The story is centered around Nathan, a programer, and Sophie, a tarot card reader. Nathan finds that he is being watched by his landlord. In a twist of fate, he has his future read by Sophie. He takes her back to his house to confirm what he thinks he has seen. Nathan is bipolar and wants to make sure that he actually saw what he thinks he saw. M.E.G is thrown in for a side story that comes full circle. Their search for answers leads them to a Rabbi. It is here that we learn that Nathan and Sophie are both Jewish but don't practice the faith. The Rabbi uses a computer program to help find codes within the Torah. Nathan and Sophie's journey takes them to Israel. Sophie get's there by being kidnapped so that Nathan will follow.... which he does. I loved the Torah Codes. A mix of religion and adventure makes for a great story, if told well, which Ezra Barany did. Starting the sequel as I can't wait to find out the outcome for Nathan and Sophie. ...more The Torah Codes (Unabridged) Author: Ezra Barany Date: 11-APR-2014 Narrator: Bryan Reid Provider: Barany Publishing Running Time: 7 h 47 min Format 4 A reclusive computer programmer, Nathan Yirmorshy, pounds out ones and zeros in the quiet of his home while his landlord secretly watches from behind a two-way mirror. When an intercepted note connects the landlord to a secret society, and a detective ends up dead, Nathan must abandon his home and everything familiar to him, open his heart to a tarot The Torah Codes (Unabridged) Author: Ezra Barany Date: 11-APR-2014 Narrator: Bryan Reid Provider: Barany Publishing Running Time: 7 h 47 min Format 4 A reclusive computer programmer, Nathan Yirmorshy, pounds out ones and zeros in the quiet of his home while his landlord secretly watches from behind a two-way mirror. When an intercepted note connects the landlord to a secret society, and a detective ends up dead, Nathan must abandon his home and everything familiar to him, open his heart to a tarot reader he has never met, and trust her with his life - just as the ancient scriptures have foretold. An appendix of essays by rabbis, doctors, and physicists discuss the themes of the book, specifically, the Bible codes and the Shekinah, the female aspect of God. ...more I'm not Jewish, I don't have much of a background in the way of Jewish studies. However, that in no way diminished my enjoyment of The Torah Codes. I devoured Dan Brown's DaVinci Code several years ago and I love the cryptology aspect. This book kept me hooked. Nathan Shimorshy is a computer programmer with bipolar disorder. He knows his weaknesses, but he kept surprising me, and himself, with his strengths. How far will he go to save a friend? How far will he have to go? Nathan is a smart man, I'm not Jewish, I don't have much of a background in the way of Jewish studies. However, that in no way diminished my enjoyment of The Torah Codes. I devoured Dan Brown's DaVinci Code several years ago and I love the cryptology aspect. This book kept me hooked. Nathan Shimorshy is a computer programmer with bipolar disorder. He knows his weaknesses, but he kept surprising me, and himself, with his strengths. How far will he go to save a friend? How far will he have to go? Nathan is a smart man, but he is led to smarter people. He somehow surrounds himself with people who have the knowledge to help him. He never really cracks the code himself, but he doesn't have to. All in all, an enjoyable read and I am planning on picking up 36 Righteous soon. ...more I received this book through Goodreads giveaways. I thought the characters were believable, likeable, well thought out because they all had a purpose in the novel. Ezra didn't use anyone as a filler which I really enjoyed. I did get lost a few times in the explanations of the Torah codes but I am not Jewish or know Hebrew so I think this is why. I really enjoyed the way that the story was laid out. Ezra gave a few clues and discoveries in each section that made you want to keep reading. I didn't I received this book through Goodreads giveaways. I thought the characters were believable, likeable, well thought out because they all had a purpose in the novel. Ezra didn't use anyone as a filler which I really enjoyed. I did get lost a few times in the explanations of the Torah codes but I am not Jewish or know Hebrew so I think this is why. I really enjoyed the way that the story was laid out. Ezra gave a few clues and discoveries in each section that made you want to keep reading. I didn't find that there was any slow parts in the book that bogged you down. Ezra has a quirky quality to his writing that makes this story fun to read. I would suggest this book to friends. ...more Fast paced and constantly interesting. The story unfolds almost before you know it, which really puts you in the mind of the narrator and main character, Nathan. For all the thrill ride of trying to solve the real puzzle of what's going on, the lesson at the end is most remarkable and reminds us that each of us has a responsibility to ourselves, in addition to the rest of the world. Five Stars! This book was a real page turner! It was a very interesting reading experience! I found that, when I set it aside, my thoughts kept wandering back to it, wondering what was going to happen next. I think it it can be successfully compared to The Da Vinci Code as it's in that same vein. I think I will be reading this book again! *won on GoodReads First Reads* I just... there are no words I think. Perhaps I just had too high expectations. But, I can't say that I'd recommend this to anyone. The plot was iffy, the writing was choppy and list-y. I really wish that I'd liked it, I do. This was a very interesting story. I never even knew that people studied codes from the Bible. It was exciting and adventurous! Loves it and highly recommend it!<---C>Ezra Barany</---C>", "Title": "The Torah Codes"},
