{"Comments": "\"You gave it three stars?\" she asked me, biting her lip and holding her breath. \"Yes,\" I finally answered with my marble lips,<---M> cold yet strangely comforting</---M>, even warm.<---F> \"Stephenie, don't forget to breathe</---F>.\" \"Oh, of course.\" A storm seemed to rage in her for just a moment. \"I gave it a three. It's good.\" I would never lie to her, could never lie to her. Yet, somehow, she felt it was a lie and brooded in stillness for a moment that seemed to last an eternity. Finally, I broke the aching silence. \"I ga \"You gave it three stars?\" she asked me, biting her lip and holding her breath. \"Yes,\" I finally answered with my marble lips, cold yet strangely comforting, even warm. \"Stephenie, don't forget to breathe.\" \"Oh, of course.\" A storm seemed to rage in her for just a moment. \"I gave it a three. It's good.\" I would never lie to her, could never lie to her. Yet, somehow, she felt it was a lie and brooded in stillness for a moment that seemed to last an eternity. Finally, I broke the aching silence. \"I gave it a three because the vampire lore was that good -- the extended plotline and the setup for a decent fourth novel were all enjoyable.\" There, I said it. Would it be enough for her? No, it would never be enough. \"But you absolutely hated the tent scene with the [spoiler removed:], and you wanted to send Bella straight to vampire hell for her self-absorbed, self-indulgent, self-obsessed self-ness by the end.\" We paused and I noticed sobs erupting from deep inside her. \"Stephenie, breathe, and stop biting your lip, it's getting really annoying. Quit with the crying already. Yes, all of those things are true, and if I could release myself from your books, I would. But-\" \"But?\" she asked longlingly, her fingers caressing my face while my fingers caressed her face and somebody else's fingers were somehow caressing both our faces because you can never have too much face-caressing going on -- whose fingers are those, anyway? \"But despite how much I hate Bella by now, I really want to find out more about the Volturi and the process of becoming a vampire and whether Bella is somehow part of an ancient bloodline that stirs up all the vampires and werewolves whenever she's around. That's why I gave it three stars, and that's why-\" I gasped, she gasped, we both forgot to breathe and bit our lips, \"-why I will be reading the fourth book as soon as it is out.\" Finally, I remembered to breathe and stopped caressing her face, looked into her eyes and with my godlike, cool, marble lips, asked, \"Satisfied?\" Smiling, she answered, \"Yes, very.\" ____________ Notes from James: If you like this one, you will probably also get a kick out of my original review of Book 1 . Enjoy! ...more My notes to characters in <+++>Eclipse</+++> : Bella: I'm so done with you. You're a self-absorbed little snot. You're not a strong modern woman because you don't want to be a teen bride, and you're not cute because you fall down a lot. Alice: You're so not cute either. Jacob: What you did is called \"date rape,\" buckaroo. And to think I liked you best until the middle of this book! <---C>Edward</---C>: Checking the brood-o-meter... yep, you're still no David Boreanaz. Leah (<---B>the one lady-wolf</---B>): I don't understand why you're My notes to characters in <+++>Eclipse</+++> : Bella: I'm so done with you. You're a self-absorbed little snot. You're not a strong modern woman because you don't want to be a teen bride, and you're not cute because you fall down a lot. Alice: You're so not cute either. Jacob: What you did is called \"date rape,\" buckaroo. And to think I liked you best until the middle of this book! Edward: Checking the brood-o-meter... yep, you're still no David Boreanaz. Leah (the one lady-wolf): I don't understand why you're getting the short end of the stick just because you had your heart broken... everyone seemed to cut Bella enough slack in the last book for a lot less. Sucks to be a supporting female character in these books, huh? Note to <---A>Stephenie Meyer</---A>: Even you must think the Wuthering Heights references are a little over the top, right? Oh, and all your acknowledgements? Well, you're not cute too. ...more I had expectations for this book, but I found it to be a terrible disappointment. Where to begin with? First of all, I have lost most of the respect I had for Bella as a character. Her obsession for Edward has really gone overboard, to the point of becoming downright annoying, even unhealthy. She worships the ground he walks on, and is all too ready to dump her parents and friends just so she can spend more time with him without growing old. She doesn't seem to have any serious problem with the I had expectations for this book, but I found it to be a terrible disappointment. Where to begin with? First of all, I have lost most of the respect I had for Bella as a character. Her obsession for Edward has really gone overboard, to the point of becoming downright annoying, even unhealthy. She worships the ground he walks on, and is all too ready to dump her parents and friends just so she can spend more time with him without growing old. She doesn't seem to have any serious problem with the idea of making her parents worry, or the thought of never see them again... she's willing to stomp over anything that isn't Edward, even things that can enrich her life. She's like a satellite, her boring life revolving solely around him. She has no self-worth, and spends a good deal of the book whining, complaining and sighing, I really wanted to shake her hard at times and tell her to GET A LIFE. I also find it deeply disturbing that Bella is not more repulsed by the idea of blood lust. How could she accept the thought that she will want to kill people (even her family) so easily, just because of him? Second, Edward has gone from charming to BORING. There is such a thing as being too perfect (read: dull), and Edward fits the mold perfectly. His character is so flat, and how many times can we hear Bella and Edward exchange their love for one another before becoming bored? I mean honestly, how perfect can he be before it simply becomes ridiculous? Most of the book is spent on the two of them fawning over each other and Bella saying over and over and over again how sexy and good-looking he is. Writing tip for the author: You don't need to tell us countless times that your character is wonderful. Actions speak for themselves. Jane Austen didn't need to remind us several times that Mr. Darcy was perfect... he simply was. Third... Jacob. He's the reason I gave this book 2 stars. He was the most compelling character in the book. He wasn't perfect, but he was fun, honest, and very human, making big mistakes, but always trying to do his best... he was impossible not to love. He was real, not a perfect pretty doll with no flaws. Sadly, he was mostly wasted. I also the think the magic Twilight had dissapeared. I liked the books because the author made the whole vampire/werewolf thing so credible, but now, with armies of vampires raging through Washington, credibility has gone out the window. Also the whole book was focused on on a love triangle that everybody knew how it would end, and it made everything very predictable. And how come nobody saw that Victoria was behind the killings, when it was so darn obvious even to the casual reader? Were they stupid? Overall, a great disappointment, I'm not sure if I'll read the next book in the series. Why bother? ...more snif. my link is worthless now. this is the virgin daiquiri version of wuthering heights , all watered down, plopped in a blender, and sitting at the folding card table with the kiddies.and they are all gulping it down without knowing that the real deal is way more fun. elizabeth has probably written the best review this book could ever get , with much wittier analogies, so go read that, then come back here for some less-articulate complaints. i messed up. i thought i would have a nice vacation, wher snif. my link is worthless now. this is the virgin daiquiri version of wuthering heights , all watered down, plopped in a blender, and sitting at the folding card table with the kiddies.and they are all gulping it down without knowing that the real deal is way more fun. elizabeth has probably written the best review this book could ever get , with much wittier analogies, so go read that, then come back here for some less-articulate complaints. i messed up. i thought i would have a nice vacation, where i would have plenty of time and concentration to lounge over our mutual friend . instead, there was drinking, and some self-pity, and vacation-langour, and i just couldn't give dickens the attention he deserves. you know who really doesn't deserve my complete attention? stephenie meyer. and why is that? because she has grievously misinterpreted one of my favorite books and has created this sort of chimera byproduct that you can see some of the source material in if you squint, but it's mostly just wrong. i mean, at this point in everyone's lives, the world doesn't need another eclipse review, right? so i am mostly going to just bitch about why this book misrepresents wuthering heights and why that makes me cranky. i suppose it is ambitious of her to have attempted to pepper her vampire romance novels with elements of better works of literature like, say, shakespeare and jane austen. she made the decision to try to shoehorn these characters into the mold of another book, and just didn't bother trying to fix the parts that overflowed or got stuck together. but you can't get mad at a puppy for pissing on the rug. and i knew what i was getting into. before i started reading this, i was aware that this was the wuthering heights installment of the series, so i was obligated to read it on those grounds alone, as i will read any retelling of w.h., for better or for worse. usually worse. and elizabeth had warned me and warned me that meyer got w.h. all wrong and had reversed the roles of heathcliff and linton in a most embarrassing way, but at first, i saw no problems. bella was obviously catherine, edward was heathcliff the true love and jacob was linton,the more \"appropriate\" choice, right? done and done. i kept reading, shocked, thinking, \"but elizabeth is never wrong! what gives??\" is she only basing this on appearance? on the superficial? edward is fair and wealthy and very understanding of bella's other ties - like linton (maybe not \"understanding\" in linton's case, but \"ineffectual\") and jacob is definitely darker-complected, like heathcliff, and tied to nature and the earth. but that shouldn't change the basic differences. because obviously edward is the sun to bella's flower face. she cannot be without him - even an afternoon spent apart is unendurable and the intensity of their love is undeniable and unbreakable and blah and blah. jacob is her father's choice for her, which makes him linton, who is technically a better choice because there is less self-destructive passion, and choosing him allows her to remain, you know, alive . but let's back up. because wuthering heights was never a choice between two suitable men. it was a choice between passion and security. head and heart. and linton was never an alternative to heathcliff, catherine always just wanted it all. it was never about love, not with linton.he was simply the path of least resistance, and a means to an end. securing him meant securing a place for heathcliff, whom she could never marry. but who needs marriage when your husband is much weaker than your lover? so, in a more modern version of the story,it makes sense to do away with the financial angle, especially with characters this young. the conflict here is between soul and body. all bella has to do is choose humanity or immortality.easy-peasy. so the reversal of edward and jacob's fortunes didn't cause me too much grief, and still maintains the distinction between edward/heathcliff and jacob/linton. the root of the conflict is the same: to go with an all-consuming passion that \"eclipses\" one's own self and is potentially dangerous (for so so many reasons here) or to go with the one who feels more like \"family,\" who has the paternal approval, who will allow her to remain a living breathing human and retain her entire life...except her passion. fine. this still parallels w.h. and the more specific details: heathcliff goes away while catherine recovers at the linton's. and then he goes on that much longer absence, plunging her into despair. so far, so good. edward leaves bella in new moon and jacob steps in to be there for her and heals her and manages to stick a little bit of him in the space edward's leaving left. but then it gets messy and too many of heathcliff's characteristics start leaking into jacob. because jacob is kind of a dick. forcing kisses, always smirking and pushing his boundaries.he takes much more delight in troublemaking and hurting his rival, and occasionally hurts bella,too. jacob is warm and furious and tied to the forest the way heathcliff is tied to the moors. it is jacob who is the earthbound heathcliff she can remain a grubby child with. meyer rightly recognizes edward as the other half of bella's soul, but extracts all the physical, earthly passion from that role and gives it to jacob.edward protects her like a fine crystal object while his sister dresses her like a doll. what does this sound like?? linton linton linton! bella as catherine is obviously the weakest here. she is nothing like catherine. she moans about not being good enough for edward. catherine was never \"good\" enough for linton, but did that stop her? she barreled in and took what she wanted and refused to leave. bella fusses over everyone and just wants everyone to be happy and self-sacrifices all over the place. i understand that bella's character has already been established in other books, but how can she compare herself to catherine with a straight face?? catherine is a goddamn honey badger. bella is a mother hen. her relationship with edward certainly has elements that are unappealing - who wants to be watched and protected that closely all the time?, but at least i believed in their feelings because they are always reminding me and shoving my face in it. jacob forces himself on her, laughs at her human weakness when she fights back, and tries to separate her from her happiness at every turn. it is both arrogant and insecure, but this is still somehow, but the one who is most \"like family\" who bella's dad wants her to be with. (do NOT get me started on \"parental roles in the twilight saga.\")(but quickly: our girl walks through the door from her vacation and already is making dinner for her father who supports some shirtless douchebag's forced kisses, but hates the rich boy who really wants to marry his daughter and preserve her virginity.) but this is another reversal to w.h., too since heathcliff was at least raised as family, even if you don't interpret heathcliff as mr. earnshaw's bastad son. which is not a belief i personally subscribe to, but it is out there. edward is patient and forgiving and gentle and willing to give bella the space she needs before making her decision before she is even aware there is a decision to make.come on - that can't be right! heathcliff doesn't share. he can tolerate linton because he is weak and catherine would not have him harmed, but this vampire zen shit has no place in a heathcliff character, and isn't even a linton quality. that element is pure meyer. in wuthering heights , everyone behaves poorly.in this one, it is really just jacob as linton, i mean heathcliff, i mean jacob. nonsense. apart from any messing-with-the-heights stumbles, this also maintains all the lazy writing and comical details meyer interprets as passion: all the tooth grinding and clenching and chuckling and things said under the breath.oh, and snorting. why does everyone snort? and borrowing lines from wuthering heights to help bolster your characters is like posing next to the chubby girl in photographs to look slimmer. we see your borrowed finery. and the love triangle thing is pretty forced. bella herself doesn't even realize until the end that she is even in a love triangle, so how are we supposed to? honestly, i am aware that there is such a thing as \"team jacob\" because i am a citizen of the world, but god - what's the appeal in some pushy dude who won't take \"no\" for an answer?? and why do i excuse heathcliff all his sins? is it because the writing is better? is it because i believe in his love in a way i do not believe in bella? because when i think of heathcliff i feel a physical reaction in my heart. when i think of jacob, i roll my eyes. i actually liked twilight , despite its flaws. new moon was boring and repetitive. this one was irritating because of how much i looove w.h. there is no evil in this book - no revenge. the stakes are too low in the triangle.i picture the three of them at a bar: oh, i made sure jacob would overhear my conversation with bella about our upcoming nuptials. snort chuckle. eeeevil! oh, i knew edward could read my mind so i thought about how sad bella was when he went away. clenched teeth, snort,eeeevil! oh, i married her husband's sister, alternately beating and ignoring her, raised my enemy's son to be an illiterate brute, and ruined everyone's lives while i mourned my one true love. (crickets... the sound of edward and jacob pissing themselves) here is some exciting eclipse information for this year: http://eclipse.gsfc.nasa.gov/eclipse.... and get on that venus one, because you're not gonna get another chance unless you are team edward. and because this still makes me laugh: http://www.funnyordie.com/videos/f03d... i think i have probably made a point or two in that rant somewhere. i wasn't enraged, overall, not really, but it was a pretty bloated book and i really don't get all the love for this series... oh, and a gross dedication: to my husband pancho for your patience, love, friendship, humor, and willingness to eat out. TMI, stephenie meyer, TMI ... ...more Eclipse took what magic was in Twilight and survived the boring but interesting New Moon and killed it off with it's length, lack of imagery, inconsistencies, and lifeless characters. The high school romance theme is COMPLETELY abandoned- we have the occasional, random scene since we need some build up to Bella's very boring graduation where she doesn't care. I think the high school theme is one of the reasons Twilight was such a success, the reader was really in Bella's shoes as she solved Edwar Eclipse took what magic was in Twilight and survived the boring but interesting New Moon and killed it off with it's length, lack of imagery, inconsistencies, and lifeless characters. The high school romance theme is COMPLETELY abandoned- we have the occasional, random scene since we need some build up to Bella's very boring graduation where she doesn't care. I think the high school theme is one of the reasons Twilight was such a success, the reader was really in Bella's shoes as she solved Edward while attending school to provide a normal break. We sometimes read Bella studying for tests but that is only to pass the time until something supernatural happens, we never see the test nor does she feel ANY concern for her dismal grades. Heck, Bella doesn't even care about a paid stay at Dartmouth even if it's just a cover. The writing dropped dead, like the book itself, and lost its magic- it was by no means great prose but it was descriptive and nice to read. Now we read: \"It was amazing the amount of detail involved in the little figurine- the miniature wolf was utterly realistic\". Well gee, thanks for that- couldn't Meyer have at least told us the wolf's pose? Bella lost the traits that made her relatable and enjoyable- that made us feel that she was Edward's equal. She cares nothing for her parents or human friends, only visiting Angela- the first time we've seen one on one interaction between them- to avoid Edward and to appease Charlie, just so she meets her end of their deal and can be with her boyfriend. Though Bella was the only one to figure out that the intruder and the Seattle newborns were related which is meant to be a sign of her observance, it was so freaking obvious that I knew who was responsible for the newborns the day of the Eclipse Prom when I read the excerpt and knew who made the newborns, but Bella- by accident- only figures this out two days before the newborn attack. Bella whines about everything, referring to Edward leaving the house because of Jacob visiting as being childish and immature despite that we at least know how much they dislike each other and would gladly fight given the chance. She never thinks about how much she is hurting Jacob by keeping him around unless he tells that to her face. For some reason, every good character loves her, even Paul who tried to attack Bella before welcomes her (only joking about the bloodsucker stench). Then she becomes the housewife to Charlie, cooking his meals, cleaning the house as a pastime since Charlie didn't learn these skills in his 18 years of living alone nor when he had to care for his ailing parents after high school. \"And you've given me you . That's already more than I deserve, and anything else you gives me just throws us more out of balance\". The most distressing change is that Bella continues to mope about how unworthy she is of Edward, despite that she had an epiphany at the end of New Moon which finally made her understand that Edward loved her. Then there's marriage- though I understand the argument, I don't understand it coming from Bella. Hey stupid, your true love wants to MARRY YOU and yet all you can think of is the town gossip even though you will leave Forks and possibly only keep contact with your father while abandoning everyone else- so why does their gossip matter!? Bella only agrees to marriage so she can have human sex with Edward before he makes her a vampire; Bella wants sex with Edward while a human (offering to accept his proposal, let him pay for college AND a car, the floozy) but Edward only promises to try if Bella marries him, she agrees... but for the sake of sex because she is till disgusted by marriage. She is still Grumpy about parties, only complaining despite all the effort the Cullens have done for her. Edward lost his suave, flirtatious, and mysterious charm that enchanted so many in Twilight . He's so devoted like a lovesick puppy, that it's not charming. Edward either manipulates Bella to do what he wants (for her sake) or he lets her get her way- only when it concerns Jacob (after they fight of course), but Edward seemingly overcomes his very character and being to give Bella what she wants (which is a selfish and harmful want on Bella's part). I.e. He kept pressuring Bella to go to Florida (to avoid a werewolf/vampire fight for no good reason) and then tricked Bella into wanting to go by setting up an argument with her dad- that made me so mad. But despite how pathetic he was, the fact that he loves Bella so much that he won't even be mad with her despite the second kiss still won my pity- revoking all will and opinions for the sake of Bella just made me sick. What used to be a cute, loyal friend with a crush is now an obnoxious, arrogant, sick boy. Jake forces himself on Bella and she breaks her hand when trying to punch the @$$ yet he still has the gall to put his arm around her and only say that Bella enjoyed it. When Bella gives him the cold shoulder later he merely acts exasperated. Then he does a hurt puppy act- actually pouting- when Bella is too distracted to pay mind to him when all he wants to do is give her a present. He later pretends that he plans to sacrifice himself to allow Edward to be with Bella- I actually bought this, thinking Jake's new tough attitude led to this moment- but as it turns out, it was all a plot to get Bella to kiss him. Between the two, I may actually want Jake for life since he has flaws and hobbies that a couple could work to overcome in their lifetime, but not now; he brought this on himself. Jake never acted like he truly loved Bella but rather that Bella was a trophy to prove Jake bested perfect Edward. Their lovable traits have gone missing, leaving very dislikable characters behind whose flaws are either ignored or always forgiven. On the few good sides we finally learn Jasper and Rosalie's past. Rosalie's was much more interesting to me since she was much more involved in the plot both in her bitterness and actions in New Moon ; also because she told Bella her story in a selfless effort to not only amend for her past behavior but try to convince Bella to stay human. I actually felt sorry for her- how she will never sit on a porch with Emmet watching their grandchildren play- it made my throat ache. Yet all Bella takes from the story is how Tanya was interested in Edward. Jasper's wasn't very interesting- maybe it's because I wish I knew what he looked like beyond \"tall, lanky, and blonde\" or because as I read his flat story I kept wondering why Bella never noted a Texan accent- that certainly would have made him more interesting. Jasper's story just lacked any good descriptions or life, it was like reading Interview with the Vampire but without the wonderful imagery or morale lessons- just imagine how dull that would be. But I am happy we learned about him as well as how he and Alice met the Cullens- it sounds so dang interesting; I wish Meyer will write a spin off about Alice meeting Jasper. We also learn the werewolves past... it certainly wasn't as epic as I suspected. So much for natural enemies, werewolves and vampires only became enemies by accident. Speaking of the werewolves- imprinting? Yeah, poor guys, being subjected to such a lame plot device. Meyer, in case you didn't know, imprinting is when a baby animal (most commonly BIRDS) label the first thing they see as their mentor and follow the thing (be it alive or not) as an example of how to survive. Even without being scientifically incorrect it is a bad idea and I felt no romance in there. I feel ill when I recall Bella seeing her relationship with Edward just like werewolf imprinting... that completely degraded their relationship and stripped it of love. Seriously now, why can't the beloved, wonderful, and selfless Bella feel any sympathy towards Victoria who lost her beloved James because of Edward and Bella? Isn't Victoria's situation just like Bella's? Victoria isn't even treated as a villain, we never even see the newborns besides one who isn't at all the threat we wish we saw nor is she even acknowledged until about two days before the attack- she only speaks once and yells once, not even being remotely threatening. Then there's the women, all besides Alice are pathetically devoted to their man. Let's count them: Bella, Renee, Esme with her first husband (she was abused but Meyer didn't have to do that), Leah, Victoria, Jessica, and even Lauren; which leaves Alice and Rosalie the only women to not be crazy without their men and leaves Alice to be the only strong female in the entire series (Rosalie wasn't as strong but better than the others). Look at Leah, her love couldn't resist being with Emily and now Leah is part of the pack and has to share thoughts with Sam, rather than make a strong woman who overcomes her pain and moves on we get a bitter harpy who can't even be nice to Jake for saving her life when she was being cocky, she instead seeks him out to complain how Jake's lovesick dreams of Bella annoy her and then reminds him of how Edward will most likely kill Bella- while smirking. Every one of the books had a mystery- Twilight had Edward, New Moon had Jake, so Meyer tried to spin a mystery with who was making newborns and who is the intruder in Bella's room. With the intruder, Meyer did a good job confusing the characters with the Volturi option, making a decent argument to their possible involvement. The newborns receive the same treatment but nowhere as convincing. She constantly weaves through the two, trying to confuse us while making the characters so dim, none consider Victoria as an option until two days before the attack, and even then it was accident by rephrasing. The mystery was very bad and unlike the other two, it was so distant and uninvolved I never felt intrigued, especially since I knew the answer. Only read for the sake of the series. ...more With the imminent (This was written in 2010) release of the film (and the film getting decent reviews) it seemed time to dive back in. Meyer is a guilty pleasure, and the 629 pages read like 250. Bella, as usual, straddles the line between vampires and werewolves. But Stephanie Meyer has broadened her scope. She adds the complication of additional players and increased the battle forces a bit, adding some new recruits to the forces of real darkness and throwing in some preparatory and fun back s With the imminent (This was written in 2010) release of the film (and the film getting decent reviews) it seemed time to dive back in. Meyer is a guilty pleasure, and the 629 pages read like 250. Bella, as usual, straddles the line between vampires and werewolves. But Stephanie Meyer has broadened her scope. She adds the complication of additional players and increased the battle forces a bit, adding some new recruits to the forces of real darkness and throwing in some preparatory and fun back stories to bolster the coming action. She offers us a little literary meat and potatoes this time, with frequent references to Wuthering Heights. But whiny Bella still cleaves to Edward while keeping the panting Jacob at something less than paw\u2019s length. There is emotional (and some literal) bodice ripping aplenty. Can Jacob convince Bella to reconsider? Will Charlie grow any consciousness of his surroundings? Will Edward give Bella what she wants? Will the Volturi muck up the entire works? Will anyone in these books ever have sex? I\u2019m not telling. Howling good fun, without being a complete howler. ...more This book just made me hate the Twilight series even more. It made me hate Bella and Edward more. Hell, it even made me hate Stephanie Meyer for not double-checking her stupidity all in 629 pages. But I do love Jacob ever so much now. He rules. They suck. End of story. I read the third novel because of my curiosity, and we all know, curiosity killed my brain. This is my review of the novel and my opinion. Anyone who is unhealthily obsessed with Edward or the novel should not be reading this unle This book just made me hate the Twilight series even more. It made me hate Bella and Edward more. Hell, it even made me hate Stephanie Meyer for not double-checking her stupidity all in 629 pages. But I do love Jacob ever so much now. He rules. They suck. End of story. I read the third novel because of my curiosity, and we all know, curiosity killed my brain. This is my review of the novel and my opinion. Anyone who is unhealthily obsessed with Edward or the novel should not be reading this unless you want a good kick in the face! We are introduced with Jacob (my hero) writing a letter to Bitchface (Bella) and just like himself, has many flaws, but usually ends sweetly. Charlie is not so crazy about Edward like his dumbass daughter Bella is because he put her in such an emo mood. Still, he lets her have her freedom but to only use that freedom to talk to others and not waste time with Edward or Alice because she barely has any friends. What surprises me about Bella is that she is planning to go to college! However, since Edward is practically running her life now, it was he who made the choice for her. He insults werewolves because they're his natural enemies and blah blah blah, she should not hang out with him, but she reassures him they're still her friends. That's Bella for ya! Making situations a whole lot complicated then they already are. Then, Alice has a vision about Victoria hurting Bella (hoorah!), but this usually means melodrama all around and will not end well. Some other things happen that aren't important, but Bella making the moves on Edward. She wants to DO IT, while her vampire sweetheart doesn't, only to the condition if she marries him. Why? Because he's a gentleman like that... duh! She agrees either way, as long as they get to DO IT. Throughout the story, Edward and Jacob have a temporary truce to protect Bella from Victoria and her slave of vampire zombies. What we come to realize is that Bella finally accepts the truth that she is also in love with Jacob. I hear threesome coming our way! Edward doesn't like the fact Jacob is all around his meal--- er, fiance. He and Bella are shallow in this novel which makes me want to hammer them both in frustration. Then, the war begins and of course, Victoria is defeated and will not have a chance to kill Bella. I told you this will not end well. The ending sucks. It tells about how Bella and Edward are planning to marry, then do the naughty thing, then he'll turn her into a vampire. I SMELL EROTICA COMING UP. To rub it onto Jacob's adorable, non-perfect face, they invite him to their wedding which just sounds really unpleasant. I felt really sorry for him. I just wanted to hug him, give him a doggy treat, and tell him he deserved more than a prick, AM I RIGHT? I only wish this series would end up the way it should be (Bella and Edward dead). :D ...more I succumbed and read Eclipse. I swear this is the last time I will ever write about Stephenie Meyer. I really am sick and tired of her books. Fortunately, the next won\u2019t be released for a year, so I can put the series behind me for at least that long. After offending several people with my dislike for the series, I am starting to feel vindicated. Something about the third installment has pushed some Meyer loyalists over the edge. I have heard students at work complaining about how repetitive the I succumbed and read Eclipse. I swear this is the last time I will ever write about Stephenie Meyer. I really am sick and tired of her books. Fortunately, the next won\u2019t be released for a year, so I can put the series behind me for at least that long. After offending several people with my dislike for the series, I am starting to feel vindicated. Something about the third installment has pushed some Meyer loyalists over the edge. I have heard students at work complaining about how repetitive the books can be, how little occurs in 600+ pages, how weak Bella is, and how repulsive some of the love scenes are. It feels good to be right. This post isn\u2019t intended to be a ripfest on Meyer, though. I really am feeling over her and her books. But here are a few reasons why: * Throughout Eclipse, Bella compares herself and her relationship with Edward to Cathy and Heathcliff. That is a very brazen\u2014and unwarranted\u2014comparison to make. How big must Meyer\u2019s ego be\u2014how warped her sense of importance\u2014to compare her book to Emily Bront\u00eb\u2019s classic? I mean, seriously? * Meyer beats the reader over the head with how much Bella and Edward love each other. Their love is unearthly (like Catherine and Heathcliff\u2019s?); it surmounts all restraints and barriers. There never was such a love as theirs. Yet, for the life of me, after reading the three books I just don\u2019t feel that love. I don\u2019t even understand why the characters are attracted to each other. I\u2019ve been told ad nauseum that Edward is attractive. But is physical attraction a solid basis for love? And what in the world can Edward (or Jacob, for that matter) find attractive about Bella? She whines and complains and trips and faints. Despite reading over 1500 pages about their love, I still don\u2019t buy it. I feel no attachment to or investment in the characters or their relationship. * The physicality in this book really has gone too far. One scene, in particular, is straight out of any romance novel. I\u2019m not criticizing romance novels. They are what they are and don\u2019t pretend to be anything else. This book, though, is masquerading as a young adult classic: \u201cHis hand curved around my elbow, moving slowly down my arm, across my ribs and over my waist, tracing along my hip and down my leg, around my knee. He paused there, his hand curling around my calf. He pulled my leg up suddenly, hitching it around his hip\u201d (186). I blush even typing the words. Oh my. Okay, I guess this is a Stephenie Meyer ripfest. I\u2019m not sure why I feel so venomous (wink wink) about these novels. Maybe I\u2019m just jealous that Meyer can write absolute filth and be a bestselling novelist. If nothing else, this should inspire me to write more and write better. ...more \u201cHe's like a drug for you, Bella.\u201d When Bella is torn between Edward and Jacob, while Edward is her world, Jacob is likewise her savior. So who will she choose ? Eclipse made my stomach flutter when I read it first time even if it was quite melodramatic as Jacob tries to hold on Bella and never wants to let her go. My heart was broken by that scene and I did want to die alone. I cried a lot for Jacob, by the way. \u201cLook after my heart - I've left it with you.\u201d Meyer didn't disappoint me with h \u201cHe's like a drug for you, Bella.\u201d When Bella is torn between Edward and Jacob, while Edward is her world, Jacob is likewise her savior. So who will she choose ? Eclipse made my stomach flutter when I read it first time even if it was quite melodramatic as Jacob tries to hold on Bella and never wants to let her go. My heart was broken by that scene and I did want to die alone. I cried a lot for Jacob, by the way. \u201cLook after my heart - I've left it with you.\u201d Meyer didn't disappoint me with her third book in the series I love most. Although I've read many books with the love triangles like this one, Eclipse is truly original and classic for me. Plus, she also put some magic in this book and made my childhood full of joy. Thanks so much :)) \u201cI promise to love you forever - every single day of forever.\u201d I screamed for this scene alone. Oh my poor little heart ! And I think Taylor is hotter than Rob. ...more Sparked by a recent conversation with my friend Hillary, I have decided I need to post my thoughts about a certain series of novels written by Stephenie Meyer. Particularly the relationship between one, Bella, and the object of her affection. The supposedly uber hot vampire, Edward. Believe me when I say Edward has been well cast in the movie which is scheduled for release in December of this year. I thought Robert Pattinson was exceedingly good looking when I first saw him in Harry Potter (as Ce Sparked by a recent conversation with my friend Hillary, I have decided I need to post my thoughts about a certain series of novels written by Stephenie Meyer. Particularly the relationship between one, Bella, and the object of her affection. The supposedly uber hot vampire, Edward. Believe me when I say Edward has been well cast in the movie which is scheduled for release in December of this year. I thought Robert Pattinson was exceedingly good looking when I first saw him in Harry Potter (as Cedric Diggory) and I eagerly await his debut in a role that will likely earn him unending fame amongst giddy teenage girls for years to come. But enough about young hot guys whose posters would have hung on my wall as a teenager. Besides having a knack for catching spelling and punctuation errors I think a lot about how a certain book might influence it\u2019s audience, and what I think the author should have done differently in writing it based on that. Can you see why I haven\u2019t written a novel yet? I\u2019m too busy thinking about subtle messages I want to convey instead of the actual story. But I digress. The main audience in the case of the Twilight series, are a bunch of giggly teenage girls with egregious romantic notions that play out in their daydreams over and over, or which they speak to each other in hushed tones during sleepovers. Oh, and grown women who are often silly school girls at heart. Ahem\u2026. ***Warning - Spoilers Ahead!*** I devoured all three of Stephanie\u2019s books, each within a day of borrowing them. I didn\u2019t think much about them initially. I was caught up in the intense romance, the stunningly accurate view through a teenage girls mind. I identified immensely with Bella and her feelings of being so very ordinary. I also understood her intense attraction to Edward. I always crushed on the mysterious guys. The dangerous guys. But the more I\u2019ve mulled over this vehement love story, the more concerned I\u2019ve become in what I anticipate will be its ending. Especially when thinking about the thousands of teenage girls who worship this series. So I say\u2026. Bella really needs to break things off with Edward. Let me offer up my reasons for this before any of you kick me: 1. Holy Co-Dependent Relationship Batman! Co-Dependant relationships are never healthy and Bella and Edward have got a doozie of one going on. It may not have started that way but it\u2019s turned into that. Grieving for those we\u2019ve loved and lost is certainly natural but Bella took it well beyond that point, ceasing to be anything but a drone doing only what she had to in order to survive after Edward left. Then of course Edward has sworn to kill himself shortly after the time Bella has died. Sweet? Romantic? Not on your life. Other problems with their relationship that hinge on co-dependency: * Lack of interaction with other friends and acquaintances * Bella\u2019s mental attention focusing solely on relieving Edward\u2019s pain i.e. If she\u2019s a vampire, he won\u2019t struggle with wanting to kill her anymore. If she\u2019s a vampire, she\u2019ll finally be worthy of him. * Feeling her life is meaningless without him. 2. Bella is being smothered Edward and his family are controlling Bella. They may not be doing it on purpose but that doesn\u2019t make it any better. Bella seems to attract danger and Edward feels the need to protect her. He watches her all night, she gets driven by them everywhere. She rarely does anything of her own accord or by herself and when she does she know she\u2019ll face Edwards disapproval afterwards. Their relationship has become more and more like a naughty little child disobeying their master. *shudder* 3. They don\u2019t really love each other They lust each other. The only basis for Bella\u2019s devotion and supposed love that I can find are descriptions of Edwards danger and his beauty. And do you think for one moment that Edward would have taken a second glance at Bella (other than to eat her) if he had been able to read her thoughts? He was bound to be obsessed with the first girl who had the power to block him out. They are enchanted by the mystery of each other. Is this love? No. Could it turn into love? Certainly. But book three definitely had their relationship getting more and more icky. 4. My belief in number 3 was only reaffirmed by the part Jacob has played. I won\u2019t tell you that I think Bella should end up with Jacob instead. But it would be healthier than being with Edward. Being around his cheerful and friendly self brought some vigor back into her life. It was good that she didn\u2019t perceive him as a possible love interest or she may have latched on to him in rebound as she had to Edward in the first place, becoming more needy and dependent on his feeding her constant reassurances than she had been with Edward. Slowly and without force, Jacob\u2019s friendship brought her back to life, and though she still grieved for Edward she was finally living again. I also agree with Jacob that eventually she would have been happy without Edward. She would have maybe even realized that her love for Jacob was real and something deeper than the one she had with Edward. Alas that Edward has to go off and try to kill himself! As an adult I\u2019ve looked back on some relationships I had as a teen in which I was sure I really loved the person. I did care deeply about them. It was love of a sort. But not the kind that would have withstood the fizzling of passion and the inevitable changing of beliefs and shifts in personality we make until we die. So Stephenie Meyer, if you\u2019re reading this, do you really want to send a message that co-dependent relationships are romantic? That ceasing to live for yourself is romantic? That being willing to kill yourself over the one you love is romantic? That love is based on mystery, danger and good looks alone? I don\u2019t care who she ends up with ultimately (though I do hope that if it\u2019s Edward their relationship improves) but please do us all a favor and have Bella learn to think and live for herself and grow out of this sickening neediness and willingness to be controlled. ...more Last year for the 10th anniversary of Twilight, I decided to read and recap (with the help of some wonderful people) that first Twilight book. This was something that I had already done with the ENTIRE Fifty Shades series , so I was expecting Twilight to honestly present us a chance to laugh more and Hulksmash less. I was quickly proved wrong by Twilight and New Moon. Eclipse was, if you can believe it, even worse. It's almost impressive how authors of terribly written abuse porn seem to up their Last year for the 10th anniversary of Twilight, I decided to read and recap (with the help of some wonderful people) that first Twilight book. This was something that I had already done with the ENTIRE Fifty Shades series , so I was expecting Twilight to honestly present us a chance to laugh more and Hulksmash less. I was quickly proved wrong by Twilight and New Moon. Eclipse was, if you can believe it, even worse. It's almost impressive how authors of terribly written abuse porn seem to up their own trash as the series goes along. Every time I asked myself how it could possibly get worse, Stephenie Meyer showed me how. I'll spare you what has already been said a thousand times over about how badly written this book is. It's objectively low quality. Bella is a terrible narrator. She goes from being incredibly obtuse and not noticing #basic things like, I don't know, how her life is constantly in danger to noticing too much, like hearing entire conversations WHILE SHE'S SLEEPING. Cheatery narration litters the prose, but it's clear that the prose doesn't truly matter. Everyone, including the author, is here for Edward and Bella. So, let's instead focus on three things here: 1- Bella and Edward's relationship is disgusting. Edward controls every single aspect of the relationship, including how and when Bella expresses her sexuality. He manipulates the crap out of her, keeping her from seeing who she wants to see or going where she wants to go. He plans cross-country travel to keep her from a party. He bribes her into a marriage by withholding sex and conversion, HE TAKES HER CAR APART TO KEEP HER AT HOME, Bella constantly makes comments about how she doesn't even know if she'll survive upcoming meetings with the supposed love of her life, Edward assigns members of his family to baby-sit (read: stalk) his girlfriend. There is literally no reason these two people should like each other and yet, here we are. 2- This is SO RACIST OH MY GOD. Meyer appropriates Native stories and legends only to call them GENETICALLY INFERIOR to the white vampires. There is a scene where she has Jacob telling one of the Quileute \"legends\" and it involves the Quileute LITERALLY BOWING DOWN TO A WHITE WOMAN. What's the purpose of that whole, 17 pages portion of the story? So that Bella, a white girl, can see her #firstworldproblems reflected in the story. Even just reliving that for a second makes me livid. 3- Jacob is also disgusting. His behavior is reprehensible in this story. He forces himself on Bella multiple times all leading to a kiss he gets by threatening suicide unless it happens. And that's when Bella realizes she also loves Jacob. What kind of message is that???? It hurts my heart that this is the YA that shaped a generation and that generation stills stands up for this. Rape-kisses do not a romantic love triangle make, dear friends. Jacob using his physicality to force Bella into situations she doesn't want to be in is not okay. Jacob emotionally manipulating Bella is not okay. Jacob being the worst is not an excuse for Edward to also be the worst. It's very clear that Meyer is totally about this idea of not being able to help yourself or your love or your actions-- this is the book where the godforsaken concept of imprinting is introduced. No matter how much she tries to explain it as not totally effing creepy that a grown man follows an unwitting baby around until she's basically like Stockholmed into falling in love with him, Meyer will never make this concept okay with me. It's a giant representation for her entire series, though. The boy picks the girl and the girl sits there and takes his love, no matter what. I don't know what else to say. It's book 3 and the plot IS STILL that Victoria is gonna come get and eat Bella, or whatever. They drag it out the entire book and every time something bad happens, it takes them multiple chapters to be like, \"...could it be Victoria?\" YES. IT'S ALWAYS VICTORIA. WHY ARE YOU SO DUMB? There's an awful chapter in here where we get backstory about Rosalie and it's basically that she was gang raped. It has a TERRIBLE message that basically puts the blame of her rape on her beauty. And then Carlisle turns her because she's too beautiful to waste. None of this is addressed or refuted. It just happens and we wander quickly away to talk some more about Edward and Bella's stupid love. Full recaps here . ...more My reviews of the previous books still stand. Neither one was that good, let alone worth the hype. I also think it's as if Meyer wasted two books to get to this one, which was actually the best of them, so far. Yes, Eclipse was enjoyable to read; I was pleasantly surprised by it. In my opinion, the writing improved dramatically. It was nice to see real conversations that contain some substance. I appreciated the discussions and explanations about folklore, the so much needed background informati My reviews of the previous books still stand. Neither one was that good, let alone worth the hype. I also think it's as if Meyer wasted two books to get to this one, which was actually the best of them, so far. Yes, Eclipse was enjoyable to read; I was pleasantly surprised by it. In my opinion, the writing improved dramatically. It was nice to see real conversations that contain some substance. I appreciated the discussions and explanations about folklore, the so much needed background information about this universe created by her. However, the Cullen family is so involved with each other that it's still frustrating to see that even with the stories of Rosalie and Jasper explained, they remain one-dimensional characters. Plus, any detail or substance to Esme is practically non-existent. I still think Bella is a selfish, self-absorbed teenager and it's still hard for me to see why Edward loves her. I also still find Edward's ultimate control over Bella disturbing. He orders and forbids. He acts like he owns her and she lets him. This is not healthy. Regardless, Edward is much more developed, as a character, on this book. About the plot itself, it is much more interesting than the previous installments. There is actually something going on in this book, it's not only about a girl suffering for love. The fact that I had a real story, with strategy, conflict and different motivations to follow was a refreshing experience when it comes to this series. To wrap this up, Meyer has crafted a compelling story and characters with great potential. I have to give her that credit. Even though I was harsh in my criticism of the first two books, I continued reading them. I hope that the next book shows even more development than this one; I hope that the relationship between Edward and Bella gets more real reasons to exist, as well. ...more Can't help feeling slightly disappointed by this. Having seen the movie, I expected tons of action. Instead I got none. I also got lots of Bella whining. I can't seem to make up my mind on whether I like or her this character. I always seem to change my mind when I'm about to make a decision. We all can agree that Meyer isn't the best of writers, but she's not bad either. I just wish that the book was a little more involved in action and be less about Bella's indecisiveness on whether or not she Can't help feeling slightly disappointed by this. Having seen the movie, I expected tons of action. Instead I got none. I also got lots of Bella whining. I can't seem to make up my mind on whether I like or her this character. I always seem to change my mind when I'm about to make a decision. We all can agree that Meyer isn't the best of writers, but she's not bad either. I just wish that the book was a little more involved in action and be less about Bella's indecisiveness on whether or not she is in love with Jacob. The love triangle has me cussing. I am not overly fond of Jacob, not because he's trying to steal Bella from Edward, not even close. I don't like him that much because he's pretty immature. I even think that maybe, just maybe if he'd just let Bella make up her mind on her own, maybe she'd even choose him. But forcing himself on her, either directly or backstab-bishly. I really believe that if Meyer would be less hell-bent on describing all the ways Bella loves Edward or how she's in love with two people at the same time, and instead created some action sequences, it would have been a really good book and an excellent series overall. If I were her, I'd probably have written the book in a multiple pov manner (more Bella and Edward of course, but why not some of the wolf pack or the other Cullens?) and in that way we'd see many more things. I will, of course, read the next book. I had liked both parts of the movie so why shouldn't I like the book, especially if it's more condensed. I like the drama but I want some action and variety, too. The next book better give it to me. ...more Agh. What is the point of any of this? Edward is so dull and controlling and creepy. I think even a seventeen-year-old would need more than unearthly beauty and a nice car to inspire this epic, world-ending love. Jacob is the only real character, and even he keeps forcing himself on Bella in unsettling ways. The whole story is endless repetitions of Character: I'm going to do X. Other Character: I will not allow it. Character: (does it anyway) Other Character: (is hurt) I TOLD you not to do that, but Agh. What is the point of any of this? Edward is so dull and controlling and creepy. I think even a seventeen-year-old would need more than unearthly beauty and a nice car to inspire this epic, world-ending love. Jacob is the only real character, and even he keeps forcing himself on Bella in unsettling ways. The whole story is endless repetitions of Character: I'm going to do X. Other Character: I will not allow it. Character: (does it anyway) Other Character: (is hurt) I TOLD you not to do that, but thank you. Character: See? I would NEVER do anything to hurt you. with pretty much everyone in the book taking one role or the other at some point. I'm still going to read the next one, but if she doesn't end up with Jacob I'm going to be VERY UPSET. ...more Looking at other reviews of Eclipse , I'm a little surprised by the comments. Yes, of course it's badly written. Yes, of course Bella and Edward are horrible people, and they have a sick, co-dependent relationship. But that doesn't get any closer to explaining why these books are so popular. I would say that what they have going for them is that the psychology is not unrealistic, and in fact describes uncompromisingly how destructive love can be. It could hardly be plainer that Bella has made an a Looking at other reviews of Eclipse , I'm a little surprised by the comments. Yes, of course it's badly written. Yes, of course Bella and Edward are horrible people, and they have a sick, co-dependent relationship. But that doesn't get any closer to explaining why these books are so popular. I would say that what they have going for them is that the psychology is not unrealistic, and in fact describes uncompromisingly how destructive love can be. It could hardly be plainer that Bella has made an appalling mistake in falling for Edward. Let's see: he's not even human; he's 80 years older than she is; he's a murderer; he's an amoral, controlling, manipulative type, who alternates between anal attention to detail and psychotic lack of impulse control. She knows all this, and she knows that Jacob is a kind, decent person who truly loves her, but she can't get Edward out of her head. Her obsession with Edward leads to her hurting Jacob over and over again, and still she can't overcome her compulsion to use him in increasingly humiliating and cruel ways. What's powerful about the story is that we see it all through Bella's eyes, and watch her swinging back and forward between alternate phases of self-delusion and clarity. She's constantly telling us how good, kind, noble and wonderful Edward is, but her unconscious is also noting all the dreadful things he does, and we get to hear about them too. I thought the recurrent motif with the motorcycles was one of the clearest instances. In New Moon , Edward callously leaves Bella, and Jacob does his damnedest to rescue her from a nervous breakdown. He salvages two old motorcycles for them, and teaches her to ride. Bella loves the feeling of freedom and speed this gives her, and particularly relishes the sense of danger; this is how she also fantasizes that she is close to Edward. After Edward returns, he sees that this is the place where Bella is nearest to escaping his grip. He acquires a much better motorcycle of his own to take the glamor away, and he also gives her a helmet and riding jacket, ostensibly to show that he cares about her safety; but she was only riding dangerously in the first place because he had left her. Finally, when Jacob has almost died defending Bella, his life-threatening injuries are blamed on a motorcycle accident. Edward cleverly exploits this to win over Bella's father, who is smart enough to have been suspicious of him; Charlie remarks that Edward hasn't been putting Bella's life at risk. Jacob can see how adroitly Edward manipulates everyone's feelings, but only comes across as jealous when he points it out. Well, of course he's outmaneuvered. He's a teenager competing against a centenarian; under the circumstances, he puts up a good fight. What I approve of is that Bella is led to understand, through observing her own actions, just what kind of person she is: she's repayed her best friend's selfless kindness towards her by ruining his life. I was reminded of L'\u00c2ge de Raison , where Mathieu has a similar epiphany, and is forced to realize that he's not really a good guy; he's someone who's stolen a sizable amount of money to pay for his mistress's abortion. I can't help pointing out in passing that, even though Sartre is less popular than Meyer on Goodreads, he is a noticeably more competent prose stylist. If you liked the plot in Eclipse but were annoyed by the writing, you might want to check him out. Which brings us to the downside of this book. As I've argued, it has worthwhile things to say, but it's just too sloppy and repetitious. Most of the good ideas were already there in New Moon , where they were interestingly underplayed. I'm guessing Meyer got a ton of fanmail after the second volume, and felt that she had clarify things; some of the time, I feel she's more answering a reader's letter than telling a story. Come on Stephenie, you're better than this. Do your own thing, and remember that ambiguity usually improves a novel. And if everyone in the world who believes in sparkly vampires claps their hands, maybe you'll even learn how to write. ...more Stephenie Meyer should be sending handwritten thank-you notes to every sorry teenager (and masochistic adult) who continues to slog through her Harlequin romp of a series. Were it not for what I will generously term my \u2018anthropological interest\u2019 in this ever-popularizing series, I for one would certainly be leading a caravan out to the old country to demand that she return the four and half hours that I lost reading New Moon . Even skimming, I felt robbed. So why continue, you ask? Well, primar Stephenie Meyer should be sending handwritten thank-you notes to every sorry teenager (and masochistic adult) who continues to slog through her Harlequin romp of a series. Were it not for what I will generously term my \u2018anthropological interest\u2019 in this ever-popularizing series, I for one would certainly be leading a caravan out to the old country to demand that she return the four and half hours that I lost reading New Moon . Even skimming, I felt robbed. So why continue, you ask? Well, primarily, I\u2019m invested in the phenomenon. Meyers was recently reviewed in The New York Times . I\u2019ve seen no less than six people reading Twilight on the subway lately, and half of these folks were adults (including one businessman, briefcase and all). My Netflix envelopes all have ads for the upcoming flick. Barnes and Noble, The Strand, Amazon, and probably every bookstore owner who knows how to turn a buck are pumping who knows how much ad capital into publicizing the imminent release of the last installment. This is a thing now, a real thing , and it\u2019s interesting to know what the kids are reading these days. But honestly, the real reason I keep reading? Because I want to know if--after three epically long novels, an abyss of teenage drama and male dependency, a vampire war, and an impending marriage, Bella finally gets to have sex. Yeah, I know. I sound like a dirty old man. But what do you want to bet that half the Meyers acolytes out there really want to see their heroine lose it, too. Meyers can congratulate herself\u2014half the reading world under the age of 30 is suffering from a major case of vampire-lover-blue-balls right now. Just let Bella get some already. Bella\u2019s persistent, unabashed, and fanatical insistence on having sex is perhaps the most redeeming thing about this series. So much of Bella\u2019s character is lamentable\u2014she\u2019s selfish and dependent and obsessive and melodramatic and can\u2019t seem to grasp the basic consequences of any of her actions. But when it comes to hormones, Bella is remarkably uninhibited. She verbalizes what she wants\u2014sex\u2014and acts on it (at least tries to) without the least bit of embarrassment or abashedness. She is frank about her desires and ever-so-thankfully, has not once been punished for having them. (She\u2019s also, it bears noting, pretty stringently opposed to the idea of marriage. As she tells Edward when he\u2019s proposing to her, yet again, she never wanted to be That Girl. The girl who runs off and marries her boyfriend after graduating from high school in a small town.) Bella\u2019s rampant horniness and anti-marriage sentiments seem out of place within the sphere that Meyers has created. After all, Edward doesn\u2019t want to have sex with Bella until they are married and claims that in his 90+ years he hasn\u2019t had sex yet (he was waiting for the right lady, it seems). And eventually, Bella does cave. She agrees to get married, and randomly decides that she wants to wait until after the ceremony to have sex with Edward\u2014even after he finally gives in to whatever hormonal impulses vampires have and tries to seduce her. But kudos to Meyers for allowing her characters to openly discuss sex\u2014and even have Bella\u2019s father urge her to \u2018be safe\u2019 when she has sex\u2014without punishing them for doing so. Bella\u2019s sexuality is the only really interesting thing about her character. Other than that attribute, it appears that she exists solely as a plot device. The ultimate catalyst, she gives\u2014inexplicably\u2014all other characters in the book a purpose. She\u2019s got two magical beings actively \u2018fighting for her.\u2019 Whole vampire armies are created solely to destroy her. Why does anyone care so much about this girl? I couldn\u2019t tell you. But I suppose we should be glad that they all do though, because they are all so much more interesting. Even stalkeresque, one-track mind Edward. Eclipse is far more interesting than the previous two installments precisely because so much of the plot has little to do with Bella. We hear about the origins of the Quileute werewolves. Find out about Rosalie and Jasper\u2019s lives before they became vampires. Subplots with minor characters abound. The way I figure, Meyers has two options when it comes to completing her series\u2014either go for gold and spend half of the book on super-sexy softcorn teen porn, or find someway to deflect the narrative away from Bella. But chances are, with Bella\u2019s impending vampire transition, we\u2019ll be isolated with her for another 500 pages. Oh, for this to just be over already. ...more Okay, I gave two stars to this book because I kind of hate everything it stands for, but the facts remains the I've read ALL THREE books in this series cover to cover, and always feel a prick of glee when I get my hands on the newest one. I'm not sure what their diabolical pull on me is, and figuring it out would require the kind of self-analysis that would turn up things I'm sure I'd rather not know about. Here's the lowdown: Stephenie Meyer's books are hardcore teen romances with fangs-and-fur Okay, I gave two stars to this book because I kind of hate everything it stands for, but the facts remains the I've read ALL THREE books in this series cover to cover, and always feel a prick of glee when I get my hands on the newest one. I'm not sure what their diabolical pull on me is, and figuring it out would require the kind of self-analysis that would turn up things I'm sure I'd rather not know about. Here's the lowdown: Stephenie Meyer's books are hardcore teen romances with fangs-and-fur window dressing. Not being the hugest fan of romance as a genre, I was hoping the vampires and werewolves would complicate the obsessive peregrenations of the heart that the series chronicles. Unfortunately, they don't. Does anyone read these books and actually not realize that getting bitten by a vampire is just a huge, chicken-poop metaphor for the giving of a young woman's virginity? I wish Stephenie had made her books thoughtful explorations of what it means to develop and experiment with your sexuality as a young person/feel torn between your vampire and your werewolf suitors/escape near death at the hands of bloodthirsty monsters, but she hasn't. For Bella Swan, everytime things get hot and heavy, her boyfriend calmly asks her to wait until he's bitten and transformed her so that he doesn't accidentally eat her during sex. Girls, what do we learn about sleeping with our young men from this story? Yuck. Also, although Bella is presented as a passably intelligent young person, she spends about 99.9% of her time thinking about how much she loves her sanguine paramour. I don't know about you, but while I was certainly very interested in sex and all its permutations when I was in high school, I was also interested in radical politics, bad hardcore bands, soft drugs and getting enough sleep before my stupid Zero Period PE class. Bella has no hobbies; she spends all of her time taking care of, being taken care of by, and thinking about the men in her life. This is not the kind of message I'd like to be sending to young women today; I know fantasy is fantasy, and sometimes it's nice to indulge your stupider ones, but three books-worth? Please. So I guess what I'm saying is that I read all these books so I can warn folks away from them in an informed manner....yeah, that's it. Here's my recommendation, since it won't fit in the intended field: I recommend this book to those who are capable of wading through pages and pages of bullcrap in pursuit of gem-like moments of unintentional hilarity. ...more I'm not sure I can write a very cohesive review for this, so I'm just going to mention some of my major thoughts and go from there. Some of my favorite parts: The title. It makes such beautiful, perfect sense now, that any worries I had about the final result of the Edward/Jacob question seem so silly! Way to come up with a perfectly suitable title with perfect imagery. :D Asshattery. Good grief, but there was a lot of jerky behavior in this one, and most of it was coming from Jacob. He ticked me o I'm not sure I can write a very cohesive review for this, so I'm just going to mention some of my major thoughts and go from there. Some of my favorite parts: The title. It makes such beautiful, perfect sense now, that any worries I had about the final result of the Edward/Jacob question seem so silly! Way to come up with a perfectly suitable title with perfect imagery. :D Asshattery. Good grief, but there was a lot of jerky behavior in this one, and most of it was coming from Jacob. He ticked me off so badly in this one that while I felt sympathy for his situation, and understanding of his position, he lost a lot of respect from me by the way he treated Bella. From practically assaulting her with unwanted kisses, to barely even seeming to CARE that she BROKE HER HAND on his thick skull (jaw) trying to fend him off, to his constant immature belittlement of Edward/the Cullens even though he knew how much it bothered Bella... ARRRGH. Edward is SO MUCH MORE MATURE. Edward was willing to put forth the tiny bit of effort it took to start calling Jacob by his name, and TRY to treat him with greater courtesy for Bella's sake, whereas it took Jake forever to do so. I DO understand where Jake is coming from - what he is trying to make Bella see, so that she realizes she has another option for a loving, happy, mortal life - but I just think he is going about it in a very wrong way. (Even though he DID get through to her in the end.) The scene in the tent. LOVVVVED this scene. It was kind of amusing that Bella had to be drifting off through it, or we wouldn't have gotten the scene at all (i.e. if Bella isn't awake for it, we can't know about it since the book is from her POV). This scene was GENIUS. I was so happy to see Edward and Jacob finally open up to each other and give some real answers, really communicate; also it was fascinating hearing Edward wax poetic on the exquisite torture he felt watching Jacob keep Bella warm, something he physically isn't capable of doing - or in fact, the torture he felt anytime Bella was with Jacob, even though he refused to show it in order to spare Bella pain. I loved that by the end, they really did understand each other a little better. Edward realizes that Jacob really isn't that bad of a guy, and Jacob does realize that Edward truly loves Bella. What really cemented my love for Edward over the \"pushy, obnoxious dog\" was the close to this scene (I'm paraphrasing here): Edward: \"You know, if we weren't natural enemies, and you weren't trying to steal the core of my existence, I might actually like you.\" Jacob: \"Yeah... if you weren't a disgusting vampire, and weren't trying to suck the life out of the girl I love... nahh, not even then.\" AUUUUGH. It's so much nobler that Edward is willing to give Jake SOME credit, really try and look for some redeeming qualities, for Bella's sake. Immature, arrogant obnoxious dog. :p I love the line somewhere in there about \"May the best MAN win.\" \"That's exactly right, pup .\" Hahaha. All in all I do think it's really important that Jacob does finally make his point - Bella IS in love with him. And she SHOULD have all the information so she can make an informed decision about her mortality. I'm just darn glad she knows IMMEDIATELY that although she is in love with Jacob, she is still deeper in love with Edward. *whew* The whole scene after that, with Bella laying on the sleeping bag in the tent waiting for the avalanche to relieve her guilt over her feelings for Jacob, and then Edward's complete forgiveness (he even describes it as a consequence he has to accept for having left Bella earlier)... that whole section broke my heart and then sewed it back together again. I was so worried about how Bella's revelation about Jacob would be received by Edward that I actually cried in relief a little when he said \"I'm not mad at you, love.\" *swoooooooooooon* That is one noble, completely mature and smitten vampire. *lol* ...I think these are probably some of the most angst-filled books I've ever read, and I don't even care! Anyway, this book definitely tears things up emotionally but the resolution is sooooo worth it. Rosalie's and Jasper's stories are intriguing and sad, and I loved seeing them (especially Rosalie) make the effort to open up to Bella. She is most definitely part of the family already, vampire or not. Other tidbits... I think Bella's request is perfectly legit, but I'm all proud of Edward for protecting his virtue. Hahahaha. What a great twist on the whole thing. Book four should certainly be interesting. *smirk* And... and... Edward giving Bella his mother's ring and finding out that it fits her perfectly... and his glorious, glowing joy... so great! Oh, one more bit of asshattery, mostly redeemed: Charlie was being a jerkface for a lot of this book. I know he is incredibly furious at Edward for nearly destroying Bella by leaving - but then again, Edward did it because he actually thought it would be better for her, and tried to give her the option of not being with him. It's an option she just absolutely doesn't want. I couldn't believe how downright rude Charlie was being, though. Still, he mostly redeemed himself to me by being perceptive enough to realize that Bella is probably going to \"leave,\" and by not standing in her way because he knows it is her choice. I'm glad he's being nicer to Edward now. Aaaaaand... the whole imprinting thing is interesting. I really, REALLY hope Jacob imprints on someone, because I hate to think of him not having ANYONE since Bella has chosen Edward. The whole thing about Quil imprinting on a two-year-old was kind of hilarious. Oh, and Leah? Kinda snotty. But a good twist, to have a female werewolf. Finally, jeez - in the end Bella saved her own life by insisting that Edward stay with her. Whee! The fight scenes were great, especially Edward just SIGHing at Bella in exasperation when he sees she's about to off herself to try and save him and Seth, and Jasper trying to \"make sure Alice didn't have anything to do.\" Heh. Noble vampire boys. I am soooooo looking forward to book 4. Please don't let me down, Stephenie Meyer! I am trusting you to get Bella properly wedded, bedded and bitten in this next book. XD (...I think this HAS to be the longest GoodReads review I've ever written. Congrats to anyone who made it this far.) ...more The good: 1. Meyer's writing has improved. The dialogue flows better, and some of the humor is actually funny: \"Do you have a medical degree that you never told me about?\" \"Just give me the chance to decide whether or not I'm going to throw a fit over taking you to the hospital.\" He made a face of mock horror. \"Please, not a fit!\" \"If you don't let me see your hand, a fit is guaranteed.\" 2. Bella's emotions seem much more authentic than they have in past Twilight books: \"It's the fourth? Of June? Are y The good: 1. Meyer's writing has improved. The dialogue flows better, and some of the humor is actually funny: \"Do you have a medical degree that you never told me about?\" \"Just give me the chance to decide whether or not I'm going to throw a fit over taking you to the hospital.\" He made a face of mock horror. \"Please, not a fit!\" \"If you don't let me see your hand, a fit is guaranteed.\" 2. Bella's emotions seem much more authentic than they have in past Twilight books: \"It's the fourth? Of June? Are you sure? It can't be! How did that happen?\" I felt like someone had kicked my legs out from under me. The weeks of stress, of worry...somehow in the middle of all my obsessing over the time, my time had disappeared. My space for sorting through it all, for making plans, had vanished. I was out of time. And I wasn't ready. I didn't know how to do this. How to say goodbye to Charelie and Ren\u00e9e...to Jacob...to being human. I knew exactly what I wanted, but I was suddenly terrified of getting it. She starts to think much more practically about what life will be like as a vampire, and she's (finally!) a little afraid: I'd always known that I would be different. I hoped that I would be as strong as Edward said I would be. Strong and fast and, most of all, beautiful. ...I'd been trying not to think too much about the other things that I would be. Wild. Bloodthirsty. Maybe I would not be able to stop myself from killing people. Strangers, people who had never harmed me. ...People who'd had lives. And I could be the monster who took that away from them. ...If I really were somehow like that...could I possibly be me? And if all I wanted was to kill people, what would happen to the things I wanted now? She loves Edward, but she doesn't want to marry him right away \u2013 maybe not ever, certainly not the second she graduates: \"I'm not that girl, Edward. The one who gets married right out of high school like some small-town hick who got knocked up by her boyfriend! Do you know what people would think? Do you realize what century this is? People don't just get married at eighteen! Not smart people, not responsible, mature people! I wasn't going to be that girl! That's not who I am.\" I love the fact that she sees no contradiction between feeling like this about marriage and being perfectly ready to commit to an eternity of vampiredom with Edward. People are like that. Maybe not with those exact issues, but this scene rings true nonetheless. 3. Speaking of fun stuff, we learn that a vampire history book would be way more interesting than the textbooks most of us snored through in high school: \"All hell broke loose \u2013 and I mean that more literally than you can possibly imagine. We immortals have our histories, too, and this particular war will never be forgotten.\" I liked the flashbacks to vampire history. I wish there had been more of that. The bad: 1. Vampires still purr. \"You can always run later,\" Edward purred. 2. Edward's still totally condescending toward Bella. And then his fingers were on mine, holding them still. \"Are we a little impatient today?\" he murmured. \"Bella.\" He rolled his eyes. \"You aren't exactly the best judge of what is or isn't dangerous.\" 3. Bella still adores Edward beyond anything anyone could possibly deserve. He's the whole point to her life. Without him, she's nothing. When he's out of the room she just wanders aimlessly, not knowing what to do with herself. Everything and everyone else in her life comes a very distant second to him. On seeing them together, Bella's mother tells Bella: \"I wish you could see how you move around him. ...You orient yourself around him without even thinking about it. When he moves, even a little bit, you adjust your position at the same time. Like magnets...or gravity. You're like a...satellite, or something.\" Bella's mom, who's been presented as flighty and rather air-headed, is smart enough to be concerned about this. Bella, who claims to be the practical, sensible one, sees nothing wrong with this at all. 4. Stephenie Meyer is still abusing punctuation. See ellipses in above quote, which show us that Bella's mom talks just like Captain Kirk. So, apparently, does Jacob: \"Well...I was wondering...do you...y'know, kiss him?\" \"You said a few weeks....When, exactly...?\" Whoops \u2013 so does Alice, and she's my favorite character in the series: \"The timing of it was too perfect....This visitor was so careful to make no contact. Almost like he or she knew that I would see....\" Oh, and let's not forget my old favorite: ellipses with commas at the end! \"Jake...,\" I started to whine. \"Dad...,\" I moaned And speaking of forcing punctuation into unnatural positions, dashes are shoved behind commas: \"What --,\" I started to ask. Question marks are forced to make out with exclamation points: I took another deep breath. \"Don't worry?! You sliced your hand open!\" And I know this doesn't have anything to do with punctuation, but Stephenie Meyer is still having trouble with the same verb she abused in the first Twilight novel: My heart, racing already, spluttered frantically. (It totally didn't.) The ugly: 1. In the name of \"protecting\" her, Edward doesn't tell Bella about threats to her own life. He insists that he and his family are able to save her from any harm, so there's no need for her to worry her little head about anything: \"You don't think Bella has a right to know?\" Jacob challenged. \"It's her life.\" \"Why should she be frightened when she was never in danger?\" \"Better frightened than lied to.\" As always, Edward doesn't seem to realize how patronizing he's being. Would he put up with someone \"protecting\" him by keeping him in the dark? Of course not. He'd hate it. Anyone would. But he refuses to put himself in her shoes. Instead, he grants himself unlimited power to make decisions on her behalf and for her own good. 2. Edward controls Bella, again in the name of protecting her. He acts like a textbook abuser: isolating her from her friends, making her afraid of him when she breaks the rules he's laid down for her. He sabotages her car to keep her from going to see Jacob, whom he insists is dangerous. Sure. Except Jacob spent the whole last book taking care of Bella, saving her life at least once if I recall correctly \u2013 and he was a werewolf back then, too, and in even less control of his powers than he is now. 3. Edward enlists his family to help keep Bella prisoner when he has to go hunting. She grinned, and turned the volume down until it was just background. Then she hit the locks and the gas in the same second. \"What's going on?\" I asked, starting to feel uneasy. What's going on is that it doesn't matter what Bella already had planned for the next few days (and she does have plans); Edward's sister Alice is keeping her under lock and key until Edward gets back to take over the job. I guess I shouldn't be so enraged. Bella shouldn't, either: \"I know you're frustrated that he's keeping you locked up like this, but don't give him too bad a time when he gets back. He loves you more than you know. It terrifies him to be away from you.\" This is from Rosalie, Edward's other sister. Stalking: a game the whole family can play! 4. Edward makes Bella think she's crazy \u2013 yet again in the name of \"protecting\" her: My imagination was sadly out of control. I'd taken a perfectly normal afternoon and twisted it until it looked like Edward was going out of his way to keep things from me. I needed therapy. You do. Specifically, you need a therapist to help you get away from this guy, because he is going out of his way to keep things from you and he wants you to think you're just imagining it. This is called gaslighting, and it's not something you do to someone you care about. It's something you do to someone you want to destroy from the inside out. 5. Bella hands Edward all possible power by making it clear that however much his behavior may upset her, she won't do anything about it. She won't break up with him. She won't tell Charlie how he's treating her. She won't bring it up with Carlisle and Esme and ask them to please tell their son to stop being an abusive, manipulative jerk. She will endlessly forgive in the name of keeping the peace. (The phrase \"I didn't want to fight with Edward\" appears with sickening frequency, and is always followed with her deciding that sighing and giving in is the only way to avoid a fight \u2013 and of course a fight must be avoided at all costs. Why?) 6. After two and a half books of seeming like the good guy, Jacob pulls some serious jerk moves. He knows that Bella loves Edward, but he wants to convince her to give him a chance. Especially since Edward can't give her a normal life, while being with Jacob would mean she'd be able to see her mother and father and have kids of her own. Fine. What does he do to try to win Bella over? He forces a long kiss on her: His lips forced mine open, and I could feel his hot breath in my mouth. He doesn't care that she's skeeved out and furious afterward: \"Just let me drive you home,\" Jacob insisted. Unbelievably, he had the nerve to wrap his arm around my waist. She jerks away from his touch \u2013 and then lets him drive her home. Even though she has perfectly good alternatives and is by no means stranded or in danger without Jacob's help. She just gives in. \"Fine!\" I growled. Her dad cheers Jacob on when he hears about what happened: \"Good for you, kid,\" Charlie congratulated him. When she shows him how badly she hurt her hand when she attempted to punch Jacob in the face for kissing her against her will, his response is: \"Maybe you should pick on people your own size.\" What a great dad! Later on, Bella uses kissing as currency, and in the process finds out that \u2013 aw! \u2013 she's loved Jacob all along. Whee. 7. How about that \"imprinting\" the werewolves do. I know it's supposed to be romantic, and I do understand the appeal of the idea of a man becoming utterly, devotedly besotted with his soul mate in a single glance. I really do. But it gets creepy when it can happen to a man who's already in a relationship with a woman he loves: \"Sam did love Leah. But when he saw Emily, that didn't matter anymore.\" It gets really creepy when the Emily in question ends up returning his love because he feels so bad after mauling her. Yes. He goes werewolf and scars her for life. He feels bad. She feels bad that he feels bad. And they live happily ever after. And it gets beyond creepy when, well: \"Try not to be judgmental, okay?\" I nodded cautiously. \"Claire is two.\" And Quil, who just imprinted on her, is a grown-arse man. \"You're making judgments. I can see it on your face.\" Yep! \"It's not like that; you've got it all wrong. There's nothing romantic about it at all, not for Quil, not now. ...Quil will be the best, kindest big brother any kid ever had. There isn't a toddler on the planet that will be more carefully looked after than that little girl will be.\" Um... \"And then, when she's older and needs a friend, he'll be more understanding, trustworthy, and reliable than anyone else she knows.\" But...ew... \"And then, when she's grown up, they'll be as happy as Emily and Sam.\" Right up until she tells him she's in love with someone else, and then he mauls her like Sam mauled Emily? \"But why wouldn't she choose him, in the end? He'll be her perfect match. Like he was designed for her alone.\" In the words of the immortal bard, GROSS. Conclusion I think Meyer's writing improves a bit with every book, and I do think she has some innovative ideas in this series. It's pretty hard to think of anything new to do with vampires or werewolves. I give her full credit for succeeding with both. But these books just aren't my happy place. I want more plot and less romance. I spend too much time too angry at how Bella is treated by the alleged good guys. She speaks up more for herself in this book than she has in the past, but it's just not enough. Not sure I'm up to reading the next one. We'll see. ...more What the fuck did I just read? Reading this was a waste of my time. Welcome! And we are back, my friends, to another review of Eclipse - Twilight Book No. 3! Look at me bursting with joy... ~sigh~ Eclipse was by far the worst book out of the Twilight series. You might find that hard to believe considering I rated all of them harshly with 1 or 2 (in the case of Twilight) stars...however: This book is terrible. The Twilight series and especially this book should not be called literature. I am very fond of books, I've read nearly 400 just this year. And unfortu Welcome! And we are back, my friends, to another review of Eclipse - Twilight Book No. 3! Look at me bursting with joy... ~sigh~ Eclipse was by far the worst book out of the Twilight series. You might find that hard to believe considering I rated all of them harshly with 1 or 2 (in the case of Twilight) stars...however: This book is terrible. The Twilight series and especially this book should not be called literature. I am very fond of books, I've read nearly 400 just this year. And unfortunately, the Twilight series had to be some of those 400 books. I read the Twilight series because I was asked to by many friends...I say friends...we're not close anymore. Reading Twilight, New Moon, Eclipse and Breaking Dawn were the stupidest decisions of my life. They left my brain...well, dead. For those of you who do like the Twilight series: Now, on to Eclipse! I pride myself for being able to get through this book, because seriously I nearly fell asleep halfway through. Many people argue that the first book was the worse but in my case, it was this one. The Plot: So...how do I explain this? Well, in Twilight we are introduced to some vampires. One of them (James) nearly kills Bella, so then our precious Eddie kills him. But James had a mate, Victoria, who has come back for revenge. Victoria gets an army of new-borns (young vampires) who will kill Bella. Anyway. It was Alice who had a vision of this, and Edward finds out...so what does he do? He takes Bella, pretty much blackmailing her in front of her father, to Phoenix, to see her mum. This whole time Bella is aware Alice had a vision, and she even asks Edward what it was, but Edward doesn't tell her and Bella drops the subject like a dead apple. I know, weird vocabulary from me here but its true. She doesn't push, press even though the chick can tell there is something wrong. Bella, darling... So, they visit Phoenix. And then they return and Jacob drops The Bomb to Bella...and yeah. Why? Because Jacob at least has brains. What is The Bomb you ask? Well: When Bella and Edward are in Phoenix, Victoria comes back and while trying to catch her (both the vampires and the werewolves), Emmet (Edward's brother) by accidentally crosses onto the werewolf land. Yeah...pretty much. So, the vampires and the werewolves get together and Jasper - cos he is quite young and has experience with the newborns - trains them. And there is a huge fight which Edward doesn't participate in because she stays in a tent about 500 meters from the battlefield. Problem 1: You are trying to save Bella...why is she that close to the battlefield? This would have been a better time to visit her mum! Problem 2: Edward is not on battlefield, not helping his family because Bella drags him away with her pathetic line, reminding Eddie, that them being apart usually ends badly. No shit, Sherlock! Then Jacob finds out that Bella and Edward are getting married. Did I forget to mention that? Yeah, Edward proposes and Bella agrees even when Edward refuses to have sex with Bella. Bella is a bit embarrassed. I would be too. When Jacob finds out, he goes to fight. Bella tries to stop him. Bella kisses Jacob. Bella... And guess what? Edward does not react. He-I-what!??! For someone who says he loves Bella, has been waiting for her forever, and has proposed to her, he sucks at showing emotion. Anything else I have missed? Oh yeah, umm, Bella hears some of the wolf legends and she gets the idea of putting her blood on the trees to make the newborns crazy. But then Victoria realizes that Bella must be with Edward (I told you it wouldn't work!). So Victoria comes over and there is a fight with Eddie. And Eddie rips of her head. Bella is not shocked, which just goes to show she has mental issues. Then Jacob is hurt, the Volturi arrive and kill one of the innocent newborns and disappear. The End. Overall, the plot sucked and moved SO slow....throughout the book I felt: The Endless Love Triangle: Bella is a fickle bitch. For someone so in love with her sparkly vampire to the point where she agrees with sex after marriage, she still cannot decide who she loves more. I think I wanted to kill Bella. The Writing: I think my review speaks for itself. My Feelings: And for those of you who disagree with me: And for those who own the book: (Mine is long gone!) And my feelings now: ...more I was very disappointed in this book. I liked Twilight and enjoyed New Moon, but this installment felt like a dime romance novel to me. She didn't introduce any new characters and spent the whole book on the love triangle between Edward, Bella, and Jacob. I felt like the love scenes were cheesy and tiresome. I also felt that Bella was whiney and initiating. Doesn't she understand that she can't have 2 boyfriends? This seems to be a foreign concept to her. In addition, Meyer has taken Bella from I was very disappointed in this book. I liked Twilight and enjoyed New Moon, but this installment felt like a dime romance novel to me. She didn't introduce any new characters and spent the whole book on the love triangle between Edward, Bella, and Jacob. I felt like the love scenes were cheesy and tiresome. I also felt that Bella was whiney and initiating. Doesn't she understand that she can't have 2 boyfriends? This seems to be a foreign concept to her. In addition, Meyer has taken Bella from a bold heroine and turned her into an annoying little girl whose eternal existence depends completely upon the men in her life. She even says to Jacob that she has no choices. For most of New Moon and almost all of Eclipse Bella acts like the fainting women in silent movies that must carried everywhere and protected by their male companions. Do we really want to be spreading a message to young girls that without a strong man in their life they have no purpose to live? Please! This was such a disappointment for me. ...more So the other day I took a trip back in time to deviantART, where I spent many a day last summer trying (and failing) to gain recognition as an artist/fanfiction writer. God, I'm pathetic. I used to be all over DA, back in the Church of Nomura days. The Kingdom Hearts franchise was the main focus of my fangirling back then, and lemme tell you, there's plenty more where that came from. DeviantART is absolutely full of KH zealots and preachers. So I went back, and just for the fuck of it, I typed, \" So the other day I took a trip back in time to deviantART, where I spent many a day last summer trying (and failing) to gain recognition as an artist/fanfiction writer. God, I'm pathetic. I used to be all over DA, back in the Church of Nomura days. The Kingdom Hearts franchise was the main focus of my fangirling back then, and lemme tell you, there's plenty more where that came from. DeviantART is absolutely full of KH zealots and preachers. So I went back, and just for the fuck of it, I typed, \"Xion\" into the search box. Now, who remembers the whole Xion war? I do. Vividly. I was on the front lines of the Hate Squad. The thing about Xion was that she was simply a Kairi recolour, and everyone knew it, but couldn't hack it. They tried to deny it, tried to invent reasons to protect Nomura from flames, but they failed. You see, Xion is exactly what happens when an evil corporation runs out of ideas. But pretty much everyone in that neck of the dA woods thinks Nomura is God, and to expose the fact that he is not, and that he has failed on numerous occasions to create a decent game, is considered the highest form of blasphemy. I am not shitting you. So, who is this Xion person? Well, anyone who ever played Kingdom Hearts will know exactly who she is. She's that little dark-haired chick who looks exactly like Kairi, and of course she comes from Grand High Gary-Stu Sora, because everyone does. She was a shameless tack-on Organization XIII \"member\" inserted into one of the recent games which was just a cloy for fangirl money anyway. I mean, the main characters were AXEL and ROXAS . She's made from his chromosomes memories and as such, she wanders around moaning and complaining about how terrible her life is, even though every single one of the good guys adores her and is willing to sacrifice his life for her. She has these powers that suddenly burst out of nowhere at the most opportune time, and everyone who hates her dies in a really horrible way (mostly by being beaten to death by Sora). Axel and Riku, in particular, betray any kind of canon behavior for her because she's such a speshul snowflake and must be protected at all da timez. She also commits romanticized suicide and turns into SPARKLY ICE as she dies, telling Roxas to ZOMG avenge her. Yes; she's not just a Mary-Sue. She's also unbearably cheesy. Basically: she ruined everything. She was the reason I left the KH fandom. I almost stayed for Aqua, because right there is an exemplary female character: she values her friends, gets shit done, is responsible and kind without being flowery and silly. I also adored Larxene, and anyone who knows anything about her will know why. But I just couldn't stomach Xion and everything she represented. She is a shoddy, thrown-together, half-baked marketing ploy to rake in cash for Squeenix, and basically, she proves how tired KH has become. Frankly, the series should have gone like this: Kingdom Hearts , Chain of Memories , Kingdom Hearts 2 , Birth By Sleep . There is no point in 358/2 Days (I'm not even going to dignify it with italics) or Coded or any of that add-on bullshit designed to line the pockets of Nomura and his recolour team. She is a trick to rake in money and sell more games, and a huge portion of the fanbase fell for it. Hell, Nintendo fell for it. Yet... Xion still has a fanbase . How can this be? Now, I'm going to throw it out that KH has one of the worst fanbases ever. It's full of petty, bitchy, angry little fangirls who can't spell. No shit. They create stamps accusing people who have brains Anti-Xioners of being sexist (because there are only a few female characters in KH, they use this to demonize haters, when none of them ever said that they didn't like Xion because of her tits. They hate her because she's a noob fool, and it's nothing to do with her being a female. This argument is so moot, and pro-Xioners pulled it out of thin air just to piss people off. Additionally, Xion isn't even a girl, anyway. Not really. She's genderless) or only hating on her because she \"breaks up the AkuRoku\" (a couple of haters used this as their argument, but just because one pro-Xioner saw a motivational poster for it, they now think everyone shares this stupid idea). I've been accused of this before, just as I was minding my own business and talking to a friend. To be honest, I fucking despise AkuRoku, because I fucking despise both characters. Their popularity makes them incredibly boring, and everything you draw/write/whatever about them has been done before. A million times over. They're just...no. Can't be bothered with them. They also wail that haters don't know what a Mary-Sue is, because they accuse Xion of being one. Sorry, but were we playing the same game? She's absolutely DIRE, and an incredibly cheap, stupid character who reeks of Mary-Sue. Read that paragraph above! I did not make any of that up. That is actually what happens to Xion throughout the game. She is insufferable. The thing about the fangirls who hate the Xarmy-Sue theory is that they'll cling to their precious Xion (because hooray , Nomura's brainwashing worked again!) but then rant and rave on every Twilight -based message board they can find that Bella is a Mary-Sue. Frankly, Xion and Bella could be long-lost twins. They're both absolutely brain-dead, and incredibly anti-feminist characters. Sure, everyone thinks that because Bella has her cake and eats it too and because Xion can swing around an oversized key that they're both kick-ass women, but the truth is that both of them are, in the end, just fragile, useless little females who must at all times be protected and herded along by da menz. Bella, however, does at least have a purpose. Yeah, it's kind of a dumb one, but unlike Xion, she does more than just fill up space. Twilight wouldn't be Twilight without her. Xion could be omitted from Kingdom Hearts right now and it wouldn't make the blindest bit of difference. I hate to compare Kingdom Hearts with Twilight , but the marketing and psych-outs are pretty much the same. Meyer tricked us with the first installment, creating something heinously addictive so that even if we detested it, we'd have to read on. Nomura, at first, WAS God; up until Kingdom Hearts 2 , the series was fun, fresh and pretty awesome. It was great as a fandom, and everyone got along just fine. As it went on, his creative failures began to poke through those huge the plotholes *cough*Namine*cough* and by the time we reach the development of Kingdom Hearts 3 , no one really wants to play any more. There are so many fights and too much divide. Anti-Xion and pro-Xion is like Team Edward and Team Jacob. People actually fall out over it. I'm not shitting you. Look, at this point, it's not even about Xion any more. Kingdom Hearts had to run out of steam, collapse and die at some point. Granted, no one thought it would be the huge, screaming fandom that would implode, but it was. People like me, who just liked the game and wanted to enjoy it were stung after being prodded for cash and then disappointed, and then there are those who have literally lost friends over character arguments, and have realized that no, Nomura is not God. He just played you like a harp, and you fell for it. It's no longer about Xion, or about Bella. It isn't about Edward, or Jacob, or Axel, or Roxas. It's about fandoms eating each other when finally, finally , the cracks in their Holy Grail start to spill blood. ...more So, this is the book where all of the emotional abuse turns into the physical kind, when Meyer thinks it's a good idea to make the only good character of the series sexually assault Bella. Good fucking job, you irresponsible \"writer\". My memory of the books isn't too great, since I was crazy enough to actually read them a bunch of years ago. However, one scene stuck with me. Can you guess what it is? I'm sure you can, because this is the book where Jacob forcedly kissed Bella, after which her fa So, this is the book where all of the emotional abuse turns into the physical kind, when Meyer thinks it's a good idea to make the only good character of the series sexually assault Bella. Good fucking job, you irresponsible \"writer\". My memory of the books isn't too great, since I was crazy enough to actually read them a bunch of years ago. However, one scene stuck with me. Can you guess what it is? I'm sure you can, because this is the book where Jacob forcedly kissed Bella, after which her father congratulates him on assaulting his daughter. If I could find the exact quote and paste it into here (and if someone has it, feel free to message me), I would. Maybe if I find it at some point in the future, I'll add it into here. The series was already full of misogyny, horrible fucking messages, but this? THIS? How is sexual assault romantic? she broke her hand when she punched him! What kind of a parent thinks it's fine and dandy to have a friend sexually assault his daughter? what in the flying fuck were the publishers thinking?! ...more THE NIGHTMARE IS FINALLY OVER. This book is........look, I'm not going to lie. It's terrible. The writing is clunky and constantly being interrupted with em-dashes and ellipses, not to mention Steph's; irrational; love; of; semi-colons; which; she; uses; with; disturbing; frequency. The relationship between Edward and Bella is a classic abusive relationship. He controls her every move, he gets angry at her for things that she had no control over her, she refers to their kisses as terrifying, he THE NIGHTMARE IS FINALLY OVER. This book is........look, I'm not going to lie. It's terrible. The writing is clunky and constantly being interrupted with em-dashes and ellipses, not to mention Steph's; irrational; love; of; semi-colons; which; she; uses; with; disturbing; frequency. The relationship between Edward and Bella is a classic abusive relationship. He controls her every move, he gets angry at her for things that she had no control over her, she refers to their kisses as terrifying, he basically blackmails her into an engagement. He LITERALLY KIDNAPS HER, BRIBES HIS 'SISTER' TO WATCH HER EVERY MOVE AND THEN LEAVES TOWN. And throughout the course of this endless book, he treats her as a child. Seriously, he acts FAR more like her father than her boyfriend. And it's incredibly disturbing. The relationship between JACOB and Bella is equally disturbing. He kisses her without consent, ignoring all signs that she's totally not into this until she LITERALLY HAS TO PLAY DEAD to get him to let her go. And then he finds him hilarious that she breaks her hand trying to express her reaction to this, and still insists that someday she'll change her mind and choose him. The non-stop comparisons to Wuthering Heights are baffling. Wuthering Heights is in no way romantic, and the fact that Edward's constantly comparing himself to Heathcliff while Jacob fits the Edgar role far better makes me wonder if Stephenie Meyer has ever actually READ Wuthering Heights. Add in a staggering amount of racism and you've got yourself a truly terrible time. The only even vaguely redeeming chunk of this abomination is Rosalie's backstory, and I honestly don't think that Meyer realised how awful that is. I mean, Rosalie tells Bella that she was beaten and gang raped by her fiance and his friends in the street and left to die. She was turned into a vampire against her will, just after being gang raped. And what Bella takes away from this story is to be jealous that Rosalie's so beautiful and pale and vampire-y. Essentially, this book is indescribably boring while also being full of rage-inducing moments that make you want to scream, and if I hadn't borrowed this book from work, I'd be setting it on fire. To be honest, I'm STILL tempted to set it on fire. Because at least it would spare a generation of teenage girls from being brainwashed into thinking this bullshit is romantic. For thousands more words on all the problematic aspects of this book, read our recaps here: http://www.snarksquad.com/category/bo... ...more Actual rating: 3.5 stars Eclipse started out pretty good, and by the time I finished it, I was once again feeling the love glow that these books give me. My Thoughts : 1. Bella . Bella was rather annoying in this book. I have decided that she must have the lowest self-esteem of any person alive. I just don't get why she doesn't like herself, doesn't think herself worthy of others' love. I think that everyone should love themselves, and with two parents that adore her, you think that would have instilled some degree of self Eclipse started out pretty good, and by the time I finished it, I was once again feeling the love glow that these books give me. My Thoughts : 1. Bella . Bella was rather annoying in this book. I have decided that she must have the lowest self-esteem of any person alive. I just don't get why she doesn't like herself, doesn't think herself worthy of others' love. I think that everyone should love themselves, and with two parents that adore her, you think that would have instilled some degree of self esteem within her. But, no! Yes, we all see our flaws magnified, but still we should love ourselves as God made us. Unique creations, good part and areas in need of improvement, alike. And to make her more annoying, her self-esteem issues make others' lives more difficult. As much as I love Edward, Bella's attitude that he's so far above her, that he couldn't love her is frustrating. She doesn't think she should take anything from him more than his love. Like he shouldn't fight for her, or be willing to die for her. When she'd do it for him. That he can't give to her selflessly, when she gives all for him. In contrast, she seemed to take Jake's love for granted. The saving grace of Meyer's portrayal of Bella is that she's actually fairly self-aware. She can see her flaws clearly, her tendency to be selfish, despite her lack of self-love. She knows she's neurotic and grasping, and seems ungrateful at times. She wants to do better, and she tries. And in other ways, she's very giving, the way she cares for others. In the end, I still like her, but she's hard to swallow at times. 2. Bella and Jacob . I'm not sure how I feel about the way Bella and Jacob's relationship changes in this book. (view spoiler) [ Why does Bella have to be in love with Jacob too? A woman/man love? I am not saying that people can't feel more than one kind of love, but I just don't believe that you can love more than one person as your mate whole-hearted. In this story, it seems as though part of Bella loves Jacob as much as Edward, but she can't live without Edward, so that's why she chose him. That's a cop-out. It makes it seem like Edward is more of an addiction, and not the man she chooses to love. That she loves fiercely. I'm not discounting Bella's capacity to love Jacob. Jacob is a wonderful guy. He's very lovable and wonderful in a different way from Edward. I think that in another life Jacob was her true mate. I know that when Edward left, Jacob was there, and his love healed that wound that Edward's leaving caused Bella. He's always going to be a part of her, and even Edward knows that. I believe that he is her soulmate in that he is her best friend. But I don't think he's her other true love. So that drama of having her heart broken because she loved both guys seemed unnecessary to me. Far be it for me to tell a writer how to write her story. If that's how Ms. Meyer wanted to write it, then so be it. I just wasn't too fond of it, though. (hide spoiler) ] I do like the sweetness and the snarkiness and the enrichment that Jacob and Bella's friendship brings them both. 3. Jacob . I started caring deeply for Jacob in New Moon. Even when he is annoying, he's so vibrant, and it's hard to dislike him. I can see why Bella felt like he was so necessary to her life. He has that way of bringing life and love to the lives of those around him. I see him maturing into quite a man. I think some of what he does to Bella and Edward was kind of low-down, but he playing to win Bella from Edward and a future as a vampire. He thought he was doing the right thing, and I could see that, even though I can see why Bella and Edward wanted to hit him. I appreciated the perspective I gained of Jacob by learning more about his tribe, their pasts, and the awful things the Cold Ones had done to them. I can totally see why Jacob feels such hatred for the Cullens. I can see why he seemed so mercurial and he shows some emotional cruelty in moments. He has a whole lot on his plate. Not only does he have his unrequited love for Bella to deal with, he has a several tons' weight of all his pack and tribal family's issues to carry around. That's a lot, even for a six-feet, seven, enormous guy like Jake. At the end of the day, flaws and all, I want to hug him. Even if I don't think he should be with Bella in the long run. He needs a more balanced, more emotionally healthy person than Bella to be his true soulmate. (view spoiler) [ One thing I don't get is why he hangs onto Bella so hard, when he knows he's not imprinted on her. Is he trying to rebel against his destiny in this way? Shape at least one thing for himself? He sees that Bella can be the one thing he can claim selfishly, that doesn't have to be about his heritage as a Quilete tribesperson? I think yes. (hide spoiler) ] 4. Edward . I still love him as much as I did in the first two books. Yes, he's kind of bossy sometimes, but Bella does what Bella thinks is right, and he's pretty easy for her to manipulate. He's wrapped around her finger. I love that Edward's love for Bella isn't a selfish one. He really does want what's best for her, and much of what he does comes out of that. That doesn't mean he's perfect. There are times when he does want to be selfish, or when he tries to be controlling in her best interests, but he realizes that he's wrong and he makes up for it. And I can't stay mad at him. Really, I love this character. Everything about him. He's very courtly and decent. He's also tough and protective. His beauty isn't just skin deep. It goes to the heart and that shines out, and becomes part of his appeal for this reader. I like his interactions with Jacob, how they both do the territorial guy thing, and you see some of his more primal aspects in those moments. But at the end of the day, Edward is always going to be that decent, kind man who will do the right thing even if he doesn't like it. I hurt for Edward that he could see the draw between Bella and Jacob, and how he was hurt by some of the interactions between Bella and Jacob. Almost as though Bella's love for him was so sacred, he couldn't have the normal moments with her that she shared with Jacob. I think he shows his love for Bella that he tries very hard to allow her to have that, and not to mess that up for her. I can totally see why Bella loves him, although I don't think she should put him on a pedestal. Even Edward doesn't want that. 5. Edward and Jacob talking things out . As with the movie, which I saw first, this was one of my favorite moments in this book. I felt that it shows a lot about the two characters, and they come to realize that they aren't the enemies that they believe themselves to be. They are part of a triangle that has complemented their lives even as it's complicated them, but also one that has enriched each person. I think this is when they make peace on a deep level (even though things are a bit rough after this point). Jacob comes to see how Bella can love this 'cold one', and that Edward would never be selfish when it comes to Bella. He would give her up out of love, if he thought that was what Bella wanted and needed. And Edward comes to realize how important Jacob is to Bella, and how he can give her things that Edward can't. It's a painful thing for both to accept--the importance that the other guy has in Bella's life. This part was very well done, in my opinion. 6. The Cullens' stories . I loved reading about Rosalie and Jasper's stories. Rosalie in the movies annoys me. I like her more in the books, because you can see that her enmity with Bella isn't so much against Bella, but the desire for Bella to have the life that she couldn't, and for Bella to appreciate those choices better. What happened to Rosalie was shockingly dark. It's hard to believe that people can be so wretched to do something like that. But that's real. I can't say I regret that Rosalie was 'theatrical' in exacting her revenge. Jasper's story was one of my favorite parts of the book. I have to say that other than Edward and Jacob, Jasper is up there for me as a guy in this book. I like him almost as much as Jake. I liked seeing more of him, and how Meyer takes him from being the 'strange' brother to having a rich back story and a crucial role in the story in this book. As Rosalie's story is dark, Jasper's is equally so. Even though people hate how Meyer portrays vampires, thinking is all sparkling and light, that's clearly not the case. I like the constrast that Meyer draws between the luminous beauty of the vampires, to their dark, ravenous, grasping, cruel, destructive natures. I think in some ways, these vampires scare me more than the traditional lore, and that's coming from a girl who's read vampire stories for many years. Her vampires are formidable in a more scary way than some of the traditional vampires I've read about The typical nature of the Cold Ones strikes a sharp contrast to the decent, loving, humane natures of the Cullens. I don't want to be a vampire at all, but being a Cullen....I think I'd like that very much. 7. Victoria . I can't stand her! She's so selfish and cruel. I think she got just what she deserved. 8. The Volturi . I can see a major standoff between them and the Cullens looming on the horizon. They will realize that it's folly to take the Cullens for granted. I especially despise Jane! Overall Verdict: After the emotional rollercoaster of New Moon, it took me a while to find my feet in this installment. However, Meyer worked her spell on me once again. There are some moments of pure brilliance in this novel. I think that she has a way with words, with painting powerful imagery in my head. I loved the line in which Jacob says he is Bella's sun, but he can't fight the eclipse (which is Edward). That one line pretty much conveys the essence of this series. I love this series because it strikes me at the heart. The idea of a love that great, something beyond understanding. When you love someone, you can't always dissect out the whys, and you can't change it. You can move on, sometimes. Live your life, but part of you is always going to be with that person, and you don't ever get it back. That's what I see with Edward and Bella, and with Bella and Jake. Although not on the same scope, as an inveterate booklover, when I finish these books, I feel like part of me stays with them after I read the last page. It echoes that powerful feeling of love in a small way in my life. And I like that! ...more Eclipse is the third book from the Twilight Series and from my opinion the most complex in action and characters all-together. Comparing it to the first 2 ones, you can definitely see an evolution of the writing style and also of the plot. It was more alert, with a lot of things going on and a lot of connections were made between the previous books and this one. After all the issues between Edward and Bella dissipated, one question lingered: Will Bella accept to marry Edward? I know.. The questi Eclipse is the third book from the Twilight Series and from my opinion the most complex in action and characters all-together. Comparing it to the first 2 ones, you can definitely see an evolution of the writing style and also of the plot. It was more alert, with a lot of things going on and a lot of connections were made between the previous books and this one. After all the issues between Edward and Bella dissipated, one question lingered: Will Bella accept to marry Edward? I know.. The question was popped suddenly at the end of New Moon and everybody was left hanging, wondering what Bella will answer. Of course, the romantic scene we all imagined will not happen very soon soon.. Bella is determined to marry Edward under the condition to be transformed into a vampire. From this point on, there will be a lot of discussion whether Bella will face this transformation now on after their wedding. They are both very stubborn and eventually somebody will give in. I will let you discover who it will be. Beside this romantic problem, bigger issued occur and they all have a name: Victoria. Yap, the villain vampire who wants revenge over her partner's death is out for our couple again, but this time it won't be smooth like in New Moon. Now thing get darker and more dangerous, because she is building an army of now-born and their destination is Forks. Victoria is keen on killing anyone who had to do with James death, and her obsession is Bella and Edward. Now, everybody has to work together to protect Bella, including the werewolves. I had so much fun reading the way they cooperated, and the way they managed to learn from each other. I enjoyed the harmony between both species, even if they were natural enemies. The fact that they stood together for a cause made me believe so much that they could actually co-exist and leave it all behind. The element that made me give this book 4 stars was the love triangle made of Bella-Edward-Jacob. If you thought New Moon was packed with tension and challenges, just wait until you read this one. Bella kind of annoyed me because I am Team Edward all the way and just couldn't understand why was she so confused between the 2 of them. Her actions and behavior were sometimes odd and let me believe that she was not very sure of her feelings as she said she was. If you love somebody you don't do the things you do, even if that person was there for you in a hard period. I understand that Edward left her vulnerable and that her relationship with Jacob healed her, but doing the things she did kind of made me look at her from another perspective. Edward and Jacob were very fun to read about, their constant arguments were both funny and kind of hot, because let's face it, not any girl nowadays has 2 extremely good looking guys fighting over her. I felt that Edward could again sacrifice his love for Bella if the situation demanded it, and that he was willing to face the possibility of letting Jacob be the one for her. Jacob on the other hand fought hard for Bella and until the last moment wanted to be the right man for her. You will just have to read the book to figure out Bella's choice:) In conclusion it was a good book, with a lot of intense moments and I will repeat my idea that the evolution in characters and plot was visible, in comparison with the rest of the books from the series. 4 stars! For more reviews please check https://readwithloveblog.wordpress.com ...more Anyone who's read my reviews of the first and last books in the Twilight saga knows that this review won't consist of much. Twilight was the beginning, the best book, the start of something great. Or at least, it should have been. Breaking Dawn was the bitterly disappointing ending to the saga that had potential, but just didn't deliver. New Moon and Eclipse were the pointless, disappointing, utterly forgettable filler books in this tragedy sandwich. You know it's sad when, three days after I re Anyone who's read my reviews of the first and last books in the Twilight saga knows that this review won't consist of much. Twilight was the beginning, the best book, the start of something great. Or at least, it should have been. Breaking Dawn was the bitterly disappointing ending to the saga that had potential, but just didn't deliver. New Moon and Eclipse were the pointless, disappointing, utterly forgettable filler books in this tragedy sandwich. You know it's sad when, three days after I read this book, I couldn't immediately remember what it was about. I still don't remember much of what happened in it, aside from the fight scene towards the end. The only reason I remember said fight scene is because I'm still infuriated that Bella was able to act like such a spoiled, selfish little brat and somehow have fate reward her for it. When Edward and his family are preparing for battle, Bella has an emotional breakdown and decides she just can't live without Edward. So she asks him to stay out of the fight. For her. Internally, she feels terrible for requesting it, but she can't reconcile those feelings with the overwhelming fear of losing Edward. So she never takes it back. Edward, like the totally pussy-whipped doormat he's become (completely uncharacteristic of him considering his behavior in the first and second books), agrees. The explanation is that he feels so badly about leaving Bella for eight months (in the second book) that he can't refuse her anything. Even if it means leaving his family to fight, alone, against a sadistic, revenge-bent she-vamp whose only target is Edward's own precious little girlfriend. So he does just that. He leaves the werewolves and his family to fight alone while he and Bella camp out in the mountains. But wait! It's okay because the she-vamp has other plans. While she sends her army of newborn vamps to fight the Cullens (the ones who didn't allow some selfish bitch to talk them out of fighting, anyway) and the werewolves, *she* loops around to the mountains with her freshly-made lover-vamp to take Bella out while the others are preoccupied. It's a real good thing she asked Edward to stay out of the fight, otherwise he wouldn't have been on that mountain to defend her from Bonnie and Clyde Vampire. Please. Don't even get me started on Bella's other admirable traits. As the series progresses, she gets dumber, more selfish, and less empathetic. I hate this character. She's not the same character as the Bella in Twilight . Not even close. Her attitude and behavior make this book barely tolerable. ...more Book 3 in The Twilight Saga. Bella and Edward are back together, while Bella is struggling to hold on to her friendship with her very best friend, Jacob. There is also a new threat lurking on the horizon. This was another very entertaining story in the series. Romance, action, and some great interplay and moments between the characters, especially Bella and Jacob. Jacob continues to grow on me more and more with each book. It was interesting to learn more about Rosalie and Jasper, and also the l Book 3 in The Twilight Saga. Bella and Edward are back together, while Bella is struggling to hold on to her friendship with her very best friend, Jacob. There is also a new threat lurking on the horizon. This was another very entertaining story in the series. Romance, action, and some great interplay and moments between the characters, especially Bella and Jacob. Jacob continues to grow on me more and more with each book. It was interesting to learn more about Rosalie and Jasper, and also the legends of the werewolves. Atmospheric as always in the small-town setting of Forks, Washington. I'm looking forward to the final book, Breaking Dawn. ...more", "Title": "Eclipse"},
