{"Comments": "I thought this would be more of a story and less of a contractor's point of view in rehab/work/etc. I read a couple of chapters and decided to \"shelve\" it for now. I don't know if I couldn't get into it because I have other books I *want* to read or if it was the way the story was written. It's a great read! I read this over the weekend\u2014and couldn't put it down until I was finished. You can read my full review on my blog . Harry Sullivan reads renovations the way a fortune teller reads tea leaves: he can predict the course of your marriage by the tiles you've chosen for the master bath. At the end of a project, when he has been part of your family and had access to your most intimate spaces, he knows more about you than anyone else. In <+++>Confessions of a Contractor</+++>, Harry learns some of these same lessons about his own life. Rebecca Paulson has been dumped by her contractor and You can read my full review on my blog . Harry Sullivan reads renovations the way a fortune teller reads tea leaves: he can predict the course of your marriage by the tiles you've chosen for the master bath. At the end of a project, when he has been part of your family and had access to your most intimate spaces, he knows more about you than anyone else. In <+++>Confessions of a Contractor</+++>, Harry learns some of these same lessons about his own life. Rebecca Paulson has been dumped by her contractor and she needs help. Harry knows it's a bad idea, but he takes the job anyway. He finds out just how bad an idea it is when he discovers that his current client-with-benefits,<---M> Sally Stein</---M>, used to be a good friend of Rebecca's. They had a falling out under mysterious circumstances and, as he finds himself being drawn to Rebecca, Harry just can't leave well enough alone. There is a story on the surface here - Harry and Rebecca and Sally - as well as a story underneath. Harry is dealing with his past - his father, his last girlfriend, even his fear of a being a homeowner. The story of the wood his father collected and the way Harry finally came to terms with it made me think about all the things he learned over the course of the summer, and the ways he was finally able to shake off the past and move confidently forward. It was interesting to look at people through the lens that Harry provides, seeing all the things that their homes and their projects have to say about them. He has a habit of stopping the story to tell stories or talk about contracting and these asides are always great fun. I will be recommending this one to friends and family. ...more Confessions of a Contractor is a fun look into the life of Henry Sullivan, experienced home fixer-upper. With fifteen years of experience Henry knows to seperate work from pleasure. However, he gets caught up in the mystery of a broken friendship between two women who he signs on to do remodel work for. One women is single and successful and he is drawn to her at every turn. Then there is her old friend, who is married with children. Both women offer many enticements as well as the usual remodel Confessions of a Contractor is a fun look into the life of Henry Sullivan, experienced home fixer-upper. With fifteen years of experience Henry knows to seperate work from pleasure. However, he gets caught up in the mystery of a broken friendship between two women who he signs on to do remodel work for. One women is single and successful and he is drawn to her at every turn. Then there is her old friend, who is married with children. Both women offer many enticements as well as the usual remodeling challenges. <---A>Richard</---A> Murphy writes of experiences that I am sure happened to him in his career as well as some what-ifs. I particularly was drawn to his character hanging on to the wood his father kept for so many years. It was touching and heartfelt and Henry did indeed break some rules but also found out about himself. You never learn unless you make mistakes.<---F> Great read! </---F>...more I liked this book. It was a little uneven at points and there were times around the half way point when I found the insider contractor comments a little too cute. But the underlying story of how Henry Sullivan was able to recenter his life during and after a tumultuous Summer was worth reading. Particularly interesting was author Richard Murphy's take on relationships, both comradely male-male and amorous male-female ones. I've read a number of the other reviews on here, many of them negative, a I liked this book. It was a little uneven at points and there were times around the half way point when I found the insider contractor comments a little too cute. But the underlying story of how Henry Sullivan was able to recenter his life during and after a tumultuous Summer was worth reading. Particularly interesting was author Richard Murphy's take on relationships, both comradely male-male and amorous male-female ones. I've read a number of the other reviews on here, many of them negative, and they aren't off base. There are some flaws in the book. But I'd still recommend buying it---as long as you get it on clearance. ...more Quick, breezy read -- great for the summer. What takes it from 3 to 4 stars is an insider's perspective on high end remodeling, where money is rarely an object. For all of us HGTV junkies, it is a lot of fun. Also lifting it out of the ordinary is Henry Sullivan, the first person narrator who in an ironic voice gives the book its structure in the form of a lecture to potential home renovators. Everyone should be so lucky to have such an honest contractor. I liked this book a lot particularly sin Quick, breezy read -- great for the summer. What takes it from 3 to 4 stars is an insider's perspective on high end remodeling, where money is rarely an object. For all of us HGTV junkies, it is a lot of fun. Also lifting it out of the ordinary is Henry Sullivan, the first person narrator who in an ironic voice gives the book its structure in the form of a lecture to potential home renovators. Everyone should be so lucky to have such an honest contractor. I liked this book a lot particularly since I have a trusted contractor who over 15 years has done massive amounts of work on my house, and I could see his work ethic reflected in Henry. ...more Here's what's great about this book. 1. It's about friendships, but not in a touchy-feely, creepy-crawly kind of way. 2. The narrator's got the tone of one of those hard-boiled private eyes, like the Ross MacDonald novels. Which is awesome, for a book that could easily have been chick lit. 3. I think it does a good job of portraying L.A. 4. The author actually seems to know a lot about building houses and such, which makes it feel almost educational. Of course, it could be totally wrong, but wha Here's what's great about this book. 1. It's about friendships, but not in a touchy-feely, creepy-crawly kind of way. 2. The narrator's got the tone of one of those hard-boiled private eyes, like the Ross MacDonald novels. Which is awesome, for a book that could easily have been chick lit. 3. I think it does a good job of portraying L.A. 4. The author actually seems to know a lot about building houses and such, which makes it feel almost educational. Of course, it could be totally wrong, but whatever, fooled me. ...more This is a real page turner. I couldn't put it down. After reading this book you can't help but want to meet this Henry Sullivan I read this book quickly because a) I liked it and b) it was a quick read at less than 300 pages. The book is told first person from Henry Sullivan's perspective, and I loved his dry sense of humor and turns of phrase. (I.e. talking about a woman he worked for, Katherine Whitlock-Webber, and how her neighbors helped their \"hyphenated friend\"; I also enjoyed the line, \"Caissons are pillars of concrete and steel used to build things like bridges, as in the Golden Gate, as in the Brooklyn, as in th I read this book quickly because a) I liked it and b) it was a quick read at less than 300 pages. The book is told first person from Henry Sullivan's perspective, and I loved his dry sense of humor and turns of phrase. (I.e. talking about a woman he worked for, Katherine Whitlock-Webber, and how her neighbors helped their \"hyphenated friend\"; I also enjoyed the line, \"Caissons are pillars of concrete and steel used to build things like bridges, as in the Golden Gate, as in the Brooklyn, as in the bridge that spans the bay of You've Got to Be Kidding Me.\") The trajectory of this story is about Henry's \"love affair\" with Rebecca Paulson. (view spoiler) [It's not really an affair, though, since they ultimately share one sweet kiss. Both of them care about the other - so much on Henry's part that he uses his deceased father's stockpile of treasured wood to build her a fireplace that looks like a waterfall. Once the house is finished, the affair, such as it is, ends. Henry ends up buying a house after years living as a renter, living in harmonious blis with Clyde who \"likes the windows just the way they are.\" Rebecca ends up divorcing \"D\" and sending Henry a Christmas card so he knows she's doing all right. Who knows what happens to Sally Stein - maybe she's still sleeping with Annabelle! (hide spoiler) ] The bits about home repair were interesting, especially to someone who has watched a lot of HGTV shows. I didn't quite know what all Henry was doing at each house, but I appreciated the inside look at how to bribe HOA's, neighbors, and why scheduling can be so challenging. I also enjoyed Clyde, the 15-year-old cat that Henry ends up catsitting and then adopting. The image of poor Clyde when the emergency vet shows up and says he's not ready to be put down was adorable - \"Clyde scurried into the shower to hide at a speed I didn't think he had in him. Clyde sensed this wasn't a social visit.\" I think any man who loves a cat is a good egg. I got a huge charge out of Henry's list to the neighbor who takes care of Clyde while he's away (view spoiler) [smuggling Hector and Miguel out of Mexico after they have been deported (hide spoiler) ] : \"I didn't want to come across like one of those people who place all of their anxieties on their animals. In the morning, scoop the litter box right away. Clyde won't do his big business unless the box is completely clean.... Check his dry food bowl and make sure he has crunchies..... Throw him balls of paper for fifteen minutes and don't take it personally if he looks at you like you'll never make it to the majors. Turn on the TV before leaving for the day. The station will be tuned to the Animal Planet. Check programming to make sure it's suitable. In the evening, repeat the instructions above, then shut off the TV and turn on the stereo. He can listen to his favorite CD once, but that's it- no ifs, ands or buts.\" ...more If you live in the LA area and are in the market to do some home renovations then you need not look any farther then Henry Sullivan. Henry has been in the business for about fifteen years as a contractor. His clientele is mainly made up of wealthy, beautiful women. So for this fact alone, Henry has rules set for himself and the most important one of them is\u2026..never sleep with your clients. Plus the best contractors know how to keep the peace in the neighborhood, which is a wonderful thing as you If you live in the LA area and are in the market to do some home renovations then you need not look any farther then Henry Sullivan. Henry has been in the business for about fifteen years as a contractor. His clientele is mainly made up of wealthy, beautiful women. So for this fact alone, Henry has rules set for himself and the most important one of them is\u2026..never sleep with your clients. Plus the best contractors know how to keep the peace in the neighborhood, which is a wonderful thing as you will be living there for a while; seeing as you just spent thousands of dollars fixing your home. This summer is going to test everything Henry\u2019s got. He has two simultaneous house projects that will commend his full and undivided attention. The first item at hand is named Sally Stein, a single woman, who Henry is finding himself spending the most time in one particular room, the bedroom. Problem number two is a married lovely woman with two children by the name of Rebecca Paulson. Henry wants both women. Henry finds that he also wants to mend this once good friendship between Sally and Rebecca. He starts asking questions as to why these two are no longer friends but neither woman is speaking much. What a refreshing, witty and innovative book Confessions of a Contractor turned out to be. I have that this book is not something that I would usually run and pick up right away but after read this book in one sitting, I just may have to start checking out more of these types of books. I could tell that Richard Murphy had a great personality about him. He wrote Confessions of a Contractor not for himself but for his readers. When an author writes for his readers, you can tell as you find yourself instantly drawn into the book and the story. You would never know that Confessions of a Contractor was Mr. Murphy\u2019s first book. It was just that good. Richard Murphy is one new author you don\u2019t want to miss, so do yourself a favor and read Confessions of a Contractor today. If you\u2019re not satisfied then you need to find yourself a new contractor! ...more RATING: 4 out of 5 stars Richard Murphy definitely knows women. He has woven a beautiful story and given full dimension and character to the women in his book. His knowledge and background in construction are almost inconsequential in the story to his knowledge and sense of women\u2019s feelings. Don\u2019t get me wrong, he does seem to know what he is talking about from a craftsman\u2019s standpoint. Sally Stein and Rebecca Paulson are different as night and day and yet they used to be friends but aren't any l RATING:\t\t4 out of 5 stars Richard Murphy definitely knows women. He has woven a beautiful story and given full dimension and character to the women in his book. His knowledge and background in construction are almost inconsequential in the story to his knowledge and sense of women\u2019s feelings. Don\u2019t get me wrong, he does seem to know what he is talking about from a craftsman\u2019s standpoint. Sally Stein and Rebecca Paulson are different as night and day and yet they used to be friends but aren't any longer, and they both just happen to be Henry Sullivan\u2019s clients. Henry wants to know why they are no longer speaking as it seems that they were the best of friends. But there is more that Henry wants to know about both of them that has nothing to do with their friendship or their remodeling jobs. This is a most enjoyable read. An easy but engaging plot and cast of characters, with all the remodeling and decorating tips thrown in that you could possibly want or need. Good advice even if you simply file it away for future reference. Henry is the kind of guy that will become endearing to young and old alike. I almost see a TV series out of this book if it didn\u2019t look anything like \u201cDesperate Housewives\u201d and focused on the sensitivity angle. ...more John Cheever says that the hallmark of good fiction is when the action on the surface of the narrative is underlined by deeper meaning below the surface. Confessions of a Contractor has that in spades. On the surface, it is a romp through the lives of LA's too-wealthy-to-give-a-crap-about-money set, and as such it holds up hilariously, and I think it's easy to get fooled into thinking this is merely a good, light summer read because of Murphy's effortless and breezy tone. But Confessions is much John Cheever says that the hallmark of good fiction is when the action on the surface of the narrative is underlined by deeper meaning below the surface. Confessions of a Contractor has that in spades. On the surface, it is a romp through the lives of LA's too-wealthy-to-give-a-crap-about-money set, and as such it holds up hilariously, and I think it's easy to get fooled into thinking this is merely a good, light summer read because of Murphy's effortless and breezy tone. But Confessions is much more psychologically astute than just that. The novel is really about the unfulfilled needs and desires we all have, but that wealthy people try to fill up with the right tile for the bathroom and a new addition to the guest house. Murphy very cleverly shows that, once the basic human needs of food, shelter and clothing are met, if the more basic human need for love goes unfulfilled, no amount of expensive food, shelter or clothing is going to fill that aching void. A very exciting first novel. I can't wait for more. ...more The summary sounded pretty interesting. Unfortunately the first 100 pages were pretty boring and dry. I struggled to keep my attention on the story and wanted to give up since I felt counterproductive; I didn't because I hate not finishing books. Luckily the book got better halfway - the story and characters began to unravel and things were finally moving along. I appreciated the ending the most. It wasn't a fairy tale ending but good enough that everyone found their own revelations. I contemplat The summary sounded pretty interesting. Unfortunately the first 100 pages were pretty boring and dry. I struggled to keep my attention on the story and wanted to give up since I felt counterproductive; I didn't because I hate not finishing books. Luckily the book got better halfway - the story and characters began to unravel and things were finally moving along. I appreciated the ending the most. It wasn't a fairy tale ending but good enough that everyone found their own revelations. I contemplated giving 2 or 3 stars (\"It was ok\" vs. \"Liked it\"). While I liked the ending, I realized that when I put the book down, I was more relieved that I finally finished it rather than thinking about what I enjoyed about it. So I can only honestly say that it was ok. Decent novel, but it definitely took a lot of patience on my part. ...more I really enjoyed this first novel. It was an easy read, with a friendly tone. The main character, Henry, is a contractor. While the story is primarily about his relationships with two women whose homes he is renovating, you also get some great insight on how contractors work. Since we are considering adding on to our home in the near future, I especially was interested in those tidbits. Henry's relationship with Clyde the cat was great - both moving and funny, and an unexpected bonus.[return[ret I really enjoyed this first novel. It was an easy read, with a friendly tone. The main character, Henry, is a contractor. While the story is primarily about his relationships with two women whose homes he is renovating, you also get some great insight on how contractors work. Since we are considering adding on to our home in the near future, I especially was interested in those tidbits. Henry's relationship with Clyde the cat was great - both moving and funny, and an unexpected bonus.[return[returnFor some reason, I had a hard time following the intricacies of the plot, and keeping track of some of the secondary characters. I was somewhat confused about what was going on with one of the women, and I never did fully understand the relationship with Rebecca.[return[returnOverall, an interesting, enjoyable read that I would recommend to others. ...more A funny/serious story written by a new author who actually was a contractor. Henry has a few rules which helps him be successful in LA. The first and foremost is \"don't sleep with your clients.\" For the most part, he does OK. The female characters are believable. The male characters, including his Mexican co-workers and Bill, the gentle spirited hippy type wacko are very likeable. Clyde the cat is great too. A personal favorite quote: \"Why bail bondsmen and people in real estate think the rest of A funny/serious story written by a new author who actually was a contractor. Henry has a few rules which helps him be successful in LA. The first and foremost is \"don't sleep with your clients.\" For the most part, he does OK. The female characters are believable. The male characters, including his Mexican co-workers and Bill, the gentle spirited hippy type wacko are very likeable. Clyde the cat is great too. A personal favorite quote: \"Why bail bondsmen and people in real estate think the rest of the world has an interest in what they look like (you don't see pictures of accountants and chimney sweeps on the backs of bus stops around the country) is without a doubt one of the great mysteries of the twenty-first century.\" ...more Thank you to G. P. Putnam s Sons for the opportunity to read and review this funny book which mixes home renovation with sexual opportunities, both taken and refused. And before I read the author, Richard Murphy s bio, I knew that he had renovated a house or two. While I have never wrangled with $20,000 decisions, I have made decisions that ruined my budget and I was generally pleased that I had. And I would have shot my last (or maybe any) contractor before he touched me, much less slept with m Thank you to G. P. Putnam s Sons for the opportunity to read and review this funny book which mixes home renovation with sexual opportunities, both taken and refused. And before I read the author, Richard Murphy s bio, I knew that he had renovated a house or two. While I have never wrangled with $20,000 decisions, I have made decisions that ruined my budget and I was generally pleased that I had. And I would have shot my last (or maybe any) contractor before he touched me, much less slept with me.[return][return]To read the rest of my review, please visit LibrarysCat Book Blog ...more Not great, not terrible. I thought this was a memoir before starting it actually. Oops. Instead, this book tells the fictional tale of Henry Sullivan, an in-demand remodeler in the chi-chi side of LA. He deals mainly with rich housewives and sometimes develops relationships with them. I found Murphy's writing style elegant and beautiful, but too heavy for this type of story. Describing relationships isn't Murphy's strongest suit, which left the story feeling a bit lopsided to me. You have airy, f Not great, not terrible. I thought this was a memoir before starting it actually. Oops. Instead, this book tells the fictional tale of Henry Sullivan, an in-demand remodeler in the chi-chi side of LA. He deals mainly with rich housewives and sometimes develops relationships with them. I found Murphy's writing style elegant and beautiful, but too heavy for this type of story. Describing relationships isn't Murphy's strongest suit, which left the story feeling a bit lopsided to me. You have airy, flippant affairs in ritzy neighborhoods and then Murphy's heavier writing style - it just felt off to me. ...more Well this was a fun romp through Henry's world of life, love, and never ending renovations in Los Angeles. I would call this Stud Lit since it is a chick lit type book written by a man from the man's perspective. Although Henry is very captivating, Clyde the cat was my favorite character in the book - or at least Clyde's impact on Henry. The ending, like most everything I seem to read, fizzled out a little, but it wouldn't stop me from recommending this as a perfect beach read or when you are lo Well this was a fun romp through Henry's world of life, love, and never ending renovations in Los Angeles. I would call this Stud Lit since it is a chick lit type book written by a man from the man's perspective. Although Henry is very captivating, Clyde the cat was my favorite character in the book - or at least Clyde's impact on Henry. The ending, like most everything I seem to read, fizzled out a little, but it wouldn't stop me from recommending this as a perfect beach read or when you are looking for something light and up beat in between serious reads. ...more \"A sexy, page-turning novel about the combustible mix that results when you blend desire, jealousy, and home renovation written by a successful screenwriter and former contractor.\" I think the book does not fulfill this description. It was very interesting in the beginning but after a while I had grown bored. It started to drag and the mystery of the \"jealous husband\" was a side plot that was truly unnecessary. More than half-way through the book I had grown annoyed at the book and just skipped t \"A sexy, page-turning novel about the combustible mix that results when you blend desire, jealousy, and home renovation written by a successful screenwriter and former contractor.\" I think the book does not fulfill this description. It was very interesting in the beginning but after a while I had grown bored. It started to drag and the mystery of the \"jealous husband\" was a side plot that was truly unnecessary. More than half-way through the book I had grown annoyed at the book and just skipped to the last few pages and finished the book. ...more I think that this book is aimed at women who fantasize about fucking their contractor. I picked it up at the library, and I'm bailing after completing half of it. The writing isn't terrible, but I don't find the hero (surprise, a contractor) to be a very interesting character. And his stable of unhappy female clients, who just happen to be super hot Hollywood ladies with tons of money, don't jibe with my experience in the renovation trade. Probably fun for somebody, but not for me. This was a fun book that didn't take too long to read. It's a bit like a breezy chic-lit book, but with testosterone and a man's perspective. It helps that the author was a contractor for many years before becoming a screenwriter. He keeps the book chugging from scene to scene like you'd expect from a movie guy, but his knowledge of construction and carpentry keep the book grounded in a reality that might be lost with all the nutjobs the main character works for. I needed a shower after finishing this book. I didn't find Murphy's writting all that compelling and his characters were so shallow that I didn't miss any of them after finishing the book. In fact some of discriptions and metaphors had me laughing when they weren't meant to be funny. Oh-well, another couple of hours of my life wasted, I could have done worse. I don't want to hear any more confessions from anyone. Keep it to yourself! This book is not worth reading. I found it very boring and Murphy is not a talented writer. This was all an attempt to make a TV show. The whole thing was a set up from the start. Putnam would never publish garbage like this unless they new CBS was coming along to buy the rights. Too bad the whole thing backfired and Murphy once again failed to be a success in the entertainment industry. He has been trying for most of his life. Maybe he will make it one day but the years are running out. This book is authored by my cousin's husband, Richard Murphy. I'm about 3/4 of the way through and while it is not the type of book I normally read (no vampires, blood, mystery, etc), I am really enjoying it. Coming from a family of men in the construction business - the contents do not surprise me at all. Can't wait to finish it and give my final review. The writing was good but I didn't really enjoy the story line. The main character is a contractor in california who is torn between 2 different women, both of whom he is working on houses for. The only good part of the book was when the contractor went after his buddies who had been deported. That was interesting and I liked the relationships between them, like brothers. Overall the book started out with a lot of potential but got sidetracked mid-novel with all the extra entanglements of the cat, the ex-girlfriend, the deportation etc. It perked up towards the end - but by that point I finished the book more out of obligation than enjoyment. Kudos to whoever wrote the book jacket for this novel - the promise of this story was better than the actual book. I really enjoyed the dry humor and the laughs that I got from the book. He was really detailed with how a contractor goes about their day and work schedule but it had some dry moments and the ending could have been better. This appears to be a thinly veiled memoir of a contractor's exploits remodeling high-end houses in LA. It was amusing but the narrator has a snarky tone that grates after a while. The architectural and interior design details are interesting though. Confessions of a Contractor is about three steps away from chicklit but what honestly saves it from falling into the worst of that or any other genre is the quality of the writing. Murphy is funny. Hilarious even. This book bored me to tears. It didn't get good until the end with all the immigration stuff. I guess I should know better than to buy a book at the Dollar Tree. And the title is terrible, too. It's well written but stories about construction just aren't my thing.<---C>Richard  Murphy</---C>", "Title": "Confessions of a Contractor"},
