{"Comments": "\"How lonely people make life. But also I realized what I hadn't learned from him: that a family - if you allow it - gives you joy, which in turn gives you hope.\" I\u2019m a pretty big BEE fan,<---M> and I love his cool</---M>, detached writing style, and how all his books are slightly deranged. I love how the protagonists are always a bit off \u2013 a big part of you detests them, a little bit of you feels sorry for them, and a tiny piece of you is jealous of the seemingly glamorous lives they live (the sex, drugs, par \"How lonely people make life. But also I realized what I hadn't learned from him: that a family - if you allow it - gives you joy, which in turn gives you hope.\" I\u2019m a pretty big BEE fan, and I love his cool, detached writing style, and how all his books are slightly deranged. I love how the protagonists are always a bit off \u2013 a big part of you detests them, a little bit of you feels sorry for them, and a tiny piece of you is jealous of the seemingly glamorous lives they live (the sex, drugs, parties, dining at Spago with supermodels stuff\u2026not the ax murder Patrick Bateman stuff). <+++>Lunar Park</+++> is a bit different, because while I felt the expected pity and disgust toward the main character in the beginning of the novel, toward the end he made a turn for the better and I found myself somewhat invested in him. The story follows an accomplished and somewhat unhinged author (named, err, <---A>Bret Easton Ellis</---A>), as he tries to settle into a \u201cnormal life\u201d of marriage and fatherhood. The book is semi-autographical, in that the background of the main character is based on the author\u2019s real life (several references to and quotes from BEE\u2019s past novels are cited); but the story itself is mostly fictional. The satire and social commentary BEE is known for is definitely not missing from the book. Whereas his past books commented on the casual drug abuse in the 80s and 90s by social upscale slackers, I found it interesting that the most shocking form of drug use (abuse?) in <+++>Lunar Park</+++> is by children, by prescription. But this is just a side note to the main story of Lunar Park, which is basically a ghost story. And it\u2019s really quite scary \u2013 complete with ghosts, stalkers, poltergeists, a demonic Furby-like doll coming to life, and an appearance of Patrick Bateman. Overall, there were parts that didn\u2019t seem to fit together quite right, and the ending left me slightly confused about certain things, but the story kept me riveted. It was almost refreshing to read BEE\u2019s writing after having a break from him for so long (I hadn\u2019t read one of his books since college), and I think he has a truly original voice. ...more Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ \u201cYou dream a book, and sometimes the dream comes true. When you give up life for fiction you become a character.\u201d What is Lunar Park ???? Brett Easton Ellis claims it to be his homage to Stephen King (and you will see later in this review that it did indeed bring to mind one particular King character) \u2013 but when I really need to break it down to basics I\u2019m going with Lunar Park is what would happen if American Psycho and Fight Club an Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ \u201cYou dream a book, and sometimes the dream comes true. When you give up life for fiction you become a character.\u201d What is Lunar Park ???? Brett Easton Ellis claims it to be his homage to Stephen King (and you will see later in this review that it did indeed bring to mind one particular King character) \u2013 but when I really need to break it down to basics I\u2019m going with Lunar Park is what would happen if American Psycho and Fight Club and The Amityville Horror and Cujo all had a baby. This book is Ellis\u2019 \u201cmemoir,\u201d if you will. The story begins with a review of his quick rise to the A-List with the release of Less Than Zero and follows with the recognition of the almost immediate downward spiral that came with that success and which Ellis found himself looping through for years. Ellis takes ownership that American Psycho was a sort of \u201cbeginning of the end\u201d with respect to his mental state. For the haters of American Psycho , he issues an apology of sorts: \u201cI was not about to put myself through that experience again \u2013 of revisiting Patrick Bateman . . . Exploring that kind of violence had been \u201cinteresting\u201d and \u201cexciting\u201d and it was all \u201cmetaphorical\u201d anyway \u2013 at least to me at that moment in my life, when I was young and pissed off and had not yet grasped my own mortality, a time when physical pain and real suffering held no meaning for me.\u201d For the lovers of American Psycho (a/k/a MEEEEEEEEEE!) Ellis confirms the argument we\u2019ve been making about the book for eons: \u201cThe murders and torture were in fact fantasies fueled by [Patrick Bateman's] rage and fury about how life in America was structured and how this had \u2013 no matter the size of his wealth \u2013 trapped him.<---F> The fantasies were an escape</---F>. This was the book\u2019s thesis. It was about society and manners and mores, and not about cutting up women. How could anyone who read the book not see this?\u201d Ha! Take that suckers! Once Ellis is done summarizing his past, he takes us to the near present. Now attempting life as a (not so) straightlaced married man and father of two, Ellis lives in the \u2018burbs of the upper East coast and is starting a new novel (which, from its description, sounds more like Chuck Palahniuk\u2019s latest). Ellis knew it would be a struggle to go from ultimate sinner to wanna-be saint, but he had no idea what ghosts would come back to haunt him \u2013 morphing Lunar Park from a \u201cWhere Are They Now????\" to a tale of true horror. \u201cI was living in a movie, in a novel, an idiot\u2019s dream that someone else was writing, and I was becoming amazed \u2013 dazzled \u2013 by my dissolution.\u201d If you want a book that comes out of the gate revving its engines and raring to go, Lunar Park probably isn\u2019t what you\u2019re after. However, if you want a slow burn that is the reading equivalent of a full course meal, I highly recommend this one. Ellis proves that when you get rid of all the hype and hoopla surrounding his books, he is above all else a master wordsmith. I was glued to this one to the last page and delighted in trying to figure out \u201cwho was the bad guy?\u201d *dun dun dunnnnnnn* Was it a ghost? Patrick Bateman?? The author himself??? Or could it be the most horrific creature of all . . . the FURBY?!?!?!?!?! You\u2019ll have to read it for yourself to find out. My endless thanks go to Snotchocheez for the recommendation. You did good! ...more I read several reviews of this book before reading, most of which denounced it as being awful and I have to say, I'm surprised. I tore through it in 3 days. I saw it as a near brilliant bit of mind f*ckery, so many psychological themes and commentary on modern life for me to gleefully go searching on Google to tear up and figure out. All that and horror, too! (I read somewhere that he was influenced by Steven King, in writing this one. Indeed. I have to say, I like the Ellis version of King even I read several reviews of this book before reading, most of which denounced it as being awful and I have to say, I'm surprised. I tore through it in 3 days. I saw it as a near brilliant bit of mind f*ckery, so many psychological themes and commentary on modern life for me to gleefully go searching on Google to tear up and figure out. All that and horror, too! (I read somewhere that he was influenced by Steven King, in writing this one. Indeed. I have to say, I like the Ellis version of King even better.) I don't necessarily agree with those that say Ellis clearly hates himself. He might. Or he might also just have had an idea for a book like this and is a brilliant writer with a ... very \"interesting\", shall we say, mind. But I go back to the commentary on modern life. Having recently become a member of the suburban parent crowd, I had a great time reading his descriptions of the very sort of parents & parenting style I'm avoiding. There was one quote, in particular, that I loved: \"What happened to just wanting your kids to be content and cool?... These parents were scientists and were no longer raising their kids instinctually - everyone had read a book or watched a video or skimmed the Net to figure out what to do.\" I also found it incredibly clever to write a novel based on, or rather heavily referencing, your previous novels, in this way. I'm one of those people who, after watching movies (sometimes before), likes to tear the plot apart and understanding the meaning, where it all came from. In some ways, this felt like a very trippy readers guide to American Psycho. It's Cliff Notes on steroids. American Psycho just became that much more interesting to me and I plan on going back to not only read it again but watch the movie again, as well, given this new insight. Yes, I'm a little confused and unsure of some parts - I've come to expect that from Ellis. But I like a book (or movie) that has me researching and discussing with other readers, trying to figure it all out. To me, the books that deserve bad reviews are those that I've forgotten the moment I close the cover and put it down. I can see how this is definitely not a book for everyone. For me, there were many of my favorite elements. There were several passages that had me thinking, \"I really wish they'd make a movie out of this,\" just for the visuals. (I'm a big fan of psychological horror with lots of blood and gore. Dare I say this almost falls in line with the J-Horror genre?) ...more This novel could have been really something but it turned into a real dog\u2019s breakfast. Crap all over the place. What a mess. Reading Lunar Park was like watching one of those jovial interviews with major serial killers you can find on youtube. The reporter is alarmed/mortified/astonished to find himself quite liking this monster who slaughtered 17 human beings. You get this kind of dialogue - - Hey Jeff, can you explain a little what would be going through your mind when you were drilling holes i This novel could have been really something but it turned into a real dog\u2019s breakfast. Crap all over the place. What a mess. Reading Lunar Park was like watching one of those jovial interviews with major serial killers you can find on youtube. The reporter is alarmed/mortified/astonished to find himself quite liking this monster who slaughtered 17 human beings. You get this kind of dialogue - -\tHey Jeff, can you explain a little what would be going through your mind when you were drilling holes in those guys\u2019 heads to make them into sex zombies? -\tOh, you know, pretty much the same that would be going through your mind when you\u2019re trying to finish a tricky bit of DIY, John. -\tAw, that so, Jeff? -\tYeah, pretty much, John! (they laugh ruefully.) For the first 40 pages, Lunar Park sideswipes you with what appears to be a truthful rueful autobiographical account of BEE\u2019s own life and career. Then it veers off into pure fiction when this version of Bret marries a famous movie star and winds up playing father to her two children. This first part is lots of fun. BEE portrays himself as a charming disarming kinda coke-guzzling drug-snorting alcoholic stumbling foggily through his revoltingly affluent day with attendant wife, kids, servants and girlfriend. I was intrigued. I was thinking : Bret, where are you going with all this? It kept me turning the pages, and they were very easy to read, and even quite funny. At this point the book appeared to be three things at the same time -\tA psychodrama about fathers and sons, laced with sadness -\tA light amusing satire of very rich parents, with every damn kid in the neighbourhood medicated up to the maximum legally permitted -\tAn increasingly vicious hateful self-portrait, circling brilliantly and fascinatingly around the psychological black hole that is American Psycho But then it shimmies into a fourth thing which takes the rest of the story over and this is where the book drives over the cliff and smashes to bits on the rocks below, as it becomes a lame Stephen King story , or, since I\u2019ve never read one of SK\u2019s supernatural books, I should say, what I imagine rather contemptuously to be something SK might come up with : fiction written by the main character \u201cBret Easton Ellis\u201d starts to come to life! Yes \u2013 it seems that Patrick Bateman himself has been freed from American Psycho and is stalking the pages of Lunar Park , and up to his old tricks too. Yawn. Yawny-yawn yawn yawnioh ho hmmmm. Oh , also, we get the device of a child\u2019s toy which (also) comes to life and turns homicidal . This takes up the last half of this novel. How many times have these two devices been used before in horror fiction? 6,214. Bret, was that the best you could come up with? By page 390 Bret is channeling Ghostbusters ! And a little later, An American Werewolf in London ! HOW THIS NOVEL COULD HAVE BEEN GREAT Throughout this long tale, the fictional BEE is haunted by the even more fictional Patrick Bateman. Just as, I guess, the real BEE is haunted by his own misogynistic horror of a novel. Here he is on page 181, not wanting to think about American Psycho : I closed my eyes again. I did not want to go back to that book. It had been about my father (his rage, his obsession with status, his loneliness), whom I had transformed into a fictional serial killer\u2026 I had moved past the casual carnage that was so prevalent in the books I\u2019d conceived in my twenties, past the severed heads and the soup made of blood and the woman [er, let\u2019s skip that sentence]\u2026 Exploring that kind of violence had been \u201cinteresting\u201d and \u201cexciting\u201d and it was all \u201cmetaphorical\u201d anyway \u2013 at least to me at that moment of my life, when I was young and pissed off\u2026 I was \u201ctransgressive\u201d and the book was really about \u201cstyle\u201d When (in Lunar Park ) it seems that some crazy guy is pretending to be Patrick Bateman and copying each murder from American Psycho , BEE comments: This was the moment that detractors of the book had warned me about : if anything happens to anyone as a result of the publication of this novel, Bret Easton Ellis was to blame\u2026 and that\u2019s why the National Organisation of Women had boycotted the book\u2026 I thought the idea was laughable \u2013 that there was no one as insane or vicious as this fictional character out there in the real world. Besides, Patrick Bateman was a notoriously unreliable narrator, and if you actually read the book you could come away doubting that these crimes ever occurred. There were large hints that they existed only in Bateman\u2019s mind. The murders and torture were in fact fantasies fueled by his rage and fury about how life in America was structured and how this had trapped him. The fantasies were an escape. This was the book\u2019s thesis. It was about manners and mores, not about cutting up women. How could anyone who read the book not see this? I appreciated that this all sounds like a desperate attempt by BEE to convince himself that he had not written a horrible misogynistic novel. (And is the explanation adopted by AP's many fans). Now \u2013 if Lunar Park had continued to probe this clearly-still-open wound within BEE, and maybe ask why, in describing BEE\u2019s father\u2019s rage, or Patrick Bateman\u2019s fury at how life in America was structured, it had to be demonstrated through the torture and dismemberment of women, and not by some other means (say, planting bombs in subways \u2013 there are many ways to express a general rage), then we would have got something fascinating. But it was not to BEE. Instead, a lot of supernatural malarkey which \u2013 once again \u2013 is all about BEE\u2019s relationship with his father and (fictional) son. In other words, it\u2019s all about him. What a narcissist. TWO AND A HALF STARS I liked the satire, I liked the sudden-left-turn weirdness (until it became ridiculous), it wasn\u2019t boring at all. It was stupid (for all its preening intelligence) but it wasn\u2019t dull. YELLOW LEGAL PADS a yellow legal pad that she would mark up and casually refer back to (p288) What is it with Americans and their yellow legal pads? If I had \u00a31 (=$1.23) for each time somebody uses a yellow legal pad in an American novel I could afford that world cruise. Don\u2019t they ever come in any other colour? No blue legal pads? Always yellow? Always legal? ...more Hear ye, hear ye: I am a liar. I've always admitted to having read the whole B.E.E. collection, but have lied. This one makes it... done. Complete! I am very VERY much done with Ellis at this point in my life. And it couldn't have been sooner. The one striking thing about this one is its description of the fall of the once-mythical, once-impressive B.E.E.: once famous and rich & relevant, he grabs at past glories in a very saddening fashion, grabbing at straws really, trying to relive/transpl Hear ye, hear ye: I am a liar. I've always admitted to having read the whole B.E.E. collection, but have lied. This one makes it... done. Complete! I am very VERY much done with Ellis at this point in my life. And it couldn't have been sooner. The one striking thing about this one is its description of the fall of the once-mythical, once-impressive B.E.E.: once famous and rich & relevant, he grabs at past glories in a very saddening fashion, grabbing at straws really, trying to relive/transplant various episodes of his once victorious and literary career. Esp. borrows heavily from American Psycho. This is very lame. I've been curious of where to place this book on the bookshelf... Top Shelf? (Rules of Attraction (#1), American Psycho (#2), Glamorama (#3))... Mid Level? (Less Than Zero [#4])... OR the trash, alongside other turds such as Informers (#5) and the most horrible of all, Imperial Bedrooms? That's right. You can probably guess. ...more 'Reservoir Dogs' and 'Pulp Fiction' are two of my favorite films. So in 1996, when 'From Dusk Til Dawn' was released, I was in line on opening night. For the first hour, I watched what was undoubtedly the finest work Tarantino had produced to date, and I eagerly anticipated a typically dramatic conclusion... but something went horribly wrong: FDTD degenerated into a B-grade vampire flick. For ten horrific minutes, I tried to convince myself that one of the characters had fallen asleep, been knoc 'Reservoir Dogs' and 'Pulp Fiction' are two of my favorite films. So in 1996, when 'From Dusk Til Dawn' was released, I was in line on opening night. For the first hour, I watched what was undoubtedly the finest work Tarantino had produced to date, and I eagerly anticipated a typically dramatic conclusion... but something went horribly wrong: FDTD degenerated into a B-grade vampire flick. For ten horrific minutes, I tried to convince myself that one of the characters had fallen asleep, been knocked out, ANYTHING which would allow the on-screen action to be dismissed as temporary, someone else's nightmare, a prelude to the rest of the film rather than What The Film Had Become. 'Lunar Park' reminded me of 'From Dusk Til Dawn', except the pleasant prelude didn't last quite as long. The first chapter was brilliant, as Ellis, whose main character is a fictional creation named -- wait for it -- Bret Easton Ellis -- pokes a goodly amount of fun at himself, his career and the state of his life. Then the book falls horribly flat... before getting worse. This is a creepy cocktail of heavy drinking, excessive drugs, doped up children, and creepy hauntings. Ellis' writing itself is as good as ever, but thematically, he's a mess. For those who loved some or all of 'Less Than Zero', 'The Rules of Attraction', and 'American Psycho', but were disappointed by 'The Informers' and 'Glamorama', this book represents a continuation of trend. He covers a lot of interesting bases, but runs them out of order. As such, this book represents the third strike for Ellis. One caveat: on your next visit to your local book store or library, hang around and read the first chapter: it's a brilliant satiric synopsis of Ellis' entire career. Sharply written and bitingly acerbic, it's a must-read for any Ellis fan. Just don't read the rest of it, and certainly don't pay for it. ...more There\u2019s a story behind the film Adaptation: scriptwriter Charlie Kaufman had a hard time adapting The Orchid Thief, so what did he do? He wrote a film about him having a hard time adapting The Orchid Thief, writing himself into the script, creating for himself a twin brother, dedicating the finished piece to the sibling who didn\u2019t exist. Author Bret Easton Ellis, creator of American Psycho and other \u201ctransgressive\u201d novels, wrote himself into his novel Lunar Park, conjuring for himself a family, There\u2019s a story behind the film Adaptation: scriptwriter Charlie Kaufman had a hard time adapting The Orchid Thief, so what did he do? He wrote a film about him having a hard time adapting The Orchid Thief, writing himself into the script, creating for himself a twin brother, dedicating the finished piece to the sibling who didn\u2019t exist. Author Bret Easton Ellis, creator of American Psycho and other \u201ctransgressive\u201d novels, wrote himself into his novel Lunar Park, conjuring for himself a family, a film actress wife, a quiet neighborhood in the suburbs, a son. A series of brutal murders, a haunting, a loss. I write stories but I could never imagine writing myself into one of them, even as an exercise. Of course every writer writes himself into his stories, his fears, his joys, but how terrifying to see your own name on a page, to see yourself as a fictional character running away from fictional horrors. Honesty can be very frightening, so with Lunar Park Ellis was being very brave. Ian McEwan asks, How can a novelist find atonement when, in his novels, he is God? But Ellis found atonement. There was one long passage in the novel that ends with From those of us who are left behind: you will be remembered, you were the one I needed, I loved you in my dreams. Writing these words, would it be too much to say that Ellis found freedom? Perhaps, upon finishing the novel, he had forgiven everyone and everything that had to be forgiven, and in the process also found absolution. I think this is a remarkable book. ...more I feel funny now. No, this novel wasn't a how-to-be-a-comedian manual under the guise of some kind of fucked up, deranged horror. I feel FUNNY funny, strange funny, like someone touched me inappropriately and I don't know how I feel funny. Halfway through the book, I put it down and eyeballed my partner and started throwing existential crisis theories at him. I have this problem with depersonalization and derealization where in heightened states of anxiety you detach from your reality or your se I feel funny now. No, this novel wasn't a how-to-be-a-comedian manual under the guise of some kind of fucked up, deranged horror. I feel FUNNY funny, strange funny, like someone touched me inappropriately and I don't know how I feel funny. Halfway through the book, I put it down and eyeballed my partner and started throwing existential crisis theories at him. I have this problem with depersonalization and derealization where in heightened states of anxiety you detach from your reality or your sense of self. Mostly it's triggered by standing in shopping centres and being overwhelmed with rage, disgust, fear and hunger but sometimes it's triggered by someone fucking with my head. As Bret Easton Ellis did with me with Lunar Park. Is this real, what is real, that's not real, is he in a psychotic meltdown, oh fuck, what's going on, somebody GET MY DAUGHTER'S FURBY OUT OF THE FUCKING HOUSE No, just joking, I have more taste than to buy my daughter a furby let alone fill it with my haunted past so that it turns into a soul sucking demon bird crazed, fuck what is going on here. Alternating fear, discomfort and amusement. I didn't know how I felt. My confusedness is showing in my review. Okay, if you're a parent, one of your kids probably has a toy that creeps you the fuck out. You can't get rid of it because that would just be reinforcing the fact that a)you are insane and b)gutless. My daughter has this troll in a pink princess dress that creeps out anyone who touches it. My sister in law visited recently and she picked it up thinking it was some type of obese barbie doll but upon flipping it over, she was faced with the horrors of all horrors and she promptly dropped it. This doll definitely does things to me in my sleep, it probably watches me shower, swims in my urine when I forget to flush the toilet, is that little tickle on my foot at night that I imagine is the cat WHEN I KNOW IT REALLY ISN'T. You may have thought I went off on a tangent there. You were right but a problem shared is a problem halved and now I feel better. ...more I saw a guy on the tube in London reading this and noticed he was near the end. I wanted to stand up and say, \"Hey, it's creeping you out, isn't it. Isn't it?! ISN'T IT!!!?\" But you just can't live your life that way. It's inappropriate. Bret Easton Ellis, on the other hand, can do whatever the hell he wants. And he does. Putting yourself in a novel is either the ballsiest thing you can do, or the assy-est. In this case, both. But let's put aside the fact that Ellis is writing a tale about semi-p I saw a guy on the tube in London reading this and noticed he was near the end. I wanted to stand up and say, \"Hey, it's creeping you out, isn't it. Isn't it?! ISN'T IT!!!?\" But you just can't live your life that way. It's inappropriate. Bret Easton Ellis, on the other hand, can do whatever the hell he wants. And he does. Putting yourself in a novel is either the ballsiest thing you can do, or the assy-est. In this case, both. But let's put aside the fact that Ellis is writing a tale about semi-pseudo Ellis. It's also a damn disturbing ride, and the fact that he had the nerve to treat himself the way he treats all his other characters, facing off with self-disemboweling dogs and \"the world is more horrible than we pretend\" madness, is just cold, man. Cold. ...more Wow, actually really not very good. First off I'm feeling a bit baited-and-switched. I should have done my homework, but the edition I picked up and browsed in the English-language section of a Copenhagen bookstore gave every indication of being some kind of sincere memoir. The first twenty or so pages of this book seemed to be exactly that, and I had just gotten really curious about Ellis' life, but in Copenhagen a cup of coffee costs ten dollars so I don't even want to know what Lunar Park sell Wow, actually really not very good. First off I'm feeling a bit baited-and-switched. I should have done my homework, but the edition I picked up and browsed in the English-language section of a Copenhagen bookstore gave every indication of being some kind of sincere memoir. The first twenty or so pages of this book seemed to be exactly that, and I had just gotten really curious about Ellis' life, but in Copenhagen a cup of coffee costs ten dollars so I don't even want to know what Lunar Park sells for. But then, later on in my trip, I realized I could just e-purchase the e-book version on my Epple ePad for less than the price of a cup of coffee. Thanks, future! So I did that, and on a train from Copenhagen to Siegen I dug in ... ... and realized that no, this book I just bought isn't the story of Bret Easton Ellis' life, this is some squished-together combination of a James T. Frey-style false fantasy memoir and a really poor Steven King impersonation. Ellis' signature detachedness really fucks him up here, because as he (eventually) undertakes a ghost story, crossed with a demon story crossed with some other scary story -- there are three (3) different diabolical evils that show up in his life at the same time, and it's never really explained how they'r related -- and as the author Ellis describes the character Ellis groping through a trademark drug haze to come to grips with the threat to his trademark overfunded and mood-stabilized family, and as he's sitting there describing stuff that's supposed to be scary, it's not once the least bit frightening. Really it's kind of awkward watching it fall so flat. There are some good bits. The tribe of the western rich that Ellis followed through school and into banking has here grown older and began to raise families, while the fictional Ellis is trying to \"start over\" by marrying his old girlfriend and masquerading as a yuppie parent. The (ostensible) author Ellis describes exquisitely the weirdness of what privileged people and their children call \"normal\" these days. His observations on that level have always been brilliant. But then there's a whole lot of suck. For the whole final third he's just trying, trying, trying to build a sense of dread, foreboding, uncertainty ... all those things that good horror writers know how to do. And he's failing, failing, failing. He likes to telegraph little telling factoids ( chilling factoids!) to foreshadow the upcoming misc horrors, but he refuses to be subtle -- he keeps backing up and explaining exactly why the factoids are so chilling. Sometimes authors write not knowing what happens next, and the not knowing infects the writing with a tension and mystery. But this is a case of someone stringing together a lot of scary horror story scenes that don't quite link up, and then trying to bury that mess under another mess of more and more mystery and strangeness, hoping all along that there's an ending in there somewhere, but the final revelations are pretty mild and pointless: your estranged dad is haunting you! But really he's just trying to warn you that you're trapped in a badly plotted book. I know Bret Easton Ellis can write much better books than this. This seems like a weekend meth project. \"I know! I'll write a Stephen King novel ... about me!\" Maybe he's low on drug money. It certainly seems written for Hollywood. I don't doubt he's already sold the film rights, and if that film gets made Ellis will have one more meta-notch in his meta-belt. But frankly this book is a disappointment. I give him credit for trying something different, but when writers get so big that they can push their mistakes past their editors, through their publishers and onto the public, it's time to move on. ...more My girlfriend is reading this book right now, so at night I always see the front cover as it hides her pretty face. I've always been a fan of Bret. I loved Less than Zero, American Psycho, and Imperial Bedrooms. I didn't like Rules of Attraction ( good movie but the novel was too faggy love drunk for me.) And I hated Glammora and the Informers. All in all, he's had an impressive career and I have read a few of his novels multiple times. American Psycho sticks out as his real masterpiece in contemp My girlfriend is reading this book right now, so at night I always see the front cover as it hides her pretty face. I've always been a fan of Bret. I loved Less than Zero, American Psycho, and Imperial Bedrooms. I didn't like Rules of Attraction ( good movie but the novel was too faggy love drunk for me.) And I hated Glammora and the Informers. All in all, he's had an impressive career and I have read a few of his novels multiple times. American Psycho sticks out as his real masterpiece in contemporary transgressive literature. That book was genius and I find it interesting that people label it misogynistic. To me it was a clear indictment on materialism, he objectified woman as a way to expound on that indictment but it had NOTHING to do with women, the same as it had nothing to do with designer clothing. I think Norman Mailer said it best, that Bret was taking on deep Dostoyevskian themes. Most people that hated American Psycho hated it for legitimate reasons. The people that hate Lunar Park don't seem to understand it at all. SPOILER ALERT Lunar park is a deep, visceral, and brilliant novel. It is in fact much deeper than American Psycho, yet its darkness is washed out by sentimentality. It starts out with a quasi-memoir of his past novels and early success. He skillfully included enough facts to make this seem like a legitimate recap of his life so far, although the tone becomes satirical by the end of the section. His whole career dating back to his debut novel and including American Psycho have been about two central themes: apathy and narcissism. So it's only natural that he would move on to make the ultimate statement and turn the lens on himself, painting an apathetic and narcissistic caricature of what people believe Bret Easton Ellis would look like. The tumultuous relationship with his father is brought up within the first few pages, drawn from sincerity you can feel, and if you're paying attention, making all the other career and lifestyle narration seem disingenuous. Now the hyperbole fades back into supposed realism, but what it really is, is this crazy metaphorical and multifaceted look inside his brain. Nothing past the first chapter should be taken literal and the supernatural stuff supports this. Bret's character becomes his father, the alcoholism and disconnect are simply statements about their failed connection. His marriage with jane is just a facade created by his dads disapproval of Bret's sexual ambiguity, and how unhinged his view on the nuclear family is because his own was so badly broken. Robbie is emblematic of Bret's youth, of being misunderstood and having to deal with a father he felt lived on a different planet than him. Clayton is Brett in the purgatory stage, when he found his own independence and wealth, and became an elusive and ghoulish figure to his disdainful father. Brett Easton Ellis is such a talented writer that he throws in sophisticated social commentary, masquerading as lame and campy gimmickry. The turby doll, the video tapes, the general paranoiac tone, are all statements about post 9/11 hysteria and how far removed we had become in a very spooky time. ...more This monstrosity is about to make me take Less Than Zero off of my favorite books list. Could this book have been worse? I don't know. I really am not sure how. If we refer back to my list of things Douglas Coupland did to screw up JPod , BEE here does them all and then some, by adding in less pornography than Glamorama (remember the like 20+ page threesome in the middle? That was like, one of the least arousing things one could ever read, where with every page turn it was like, PLEASE let them b This monstrosity is about to make me take Less Than Zero off of my favorite books list. Could this book have been worse? I don't know. I really am not sure how. If we refer back to my list of things Douglas Coupland did to screw up JPod , BEE here does them all and then some, by adding in less pornography than Glamorama (remember the like 20+ page threesome in the middle? That was like, one of the least arousing things one could ever read, where with every page turn it was like, PLEASE let them be done having sex already? Can't you describe the people dying in the plane crash again?) but bringing in nearly as much violence as in American Psycho , mostly by making us relive the kills from the aforementioned tome plus adding in some new ones. With a more-famous, possibly more-drugged-up version of himself as the main character, BEE sinks to new lows with: a) impossibly dated pop culture references (look at the date this piece of crap got released, yet in the book his kids dress as Posh Spice and Eminem for Halloween. Um, not exactly timely!); b) violence to the extent that I actually almost threw up. Like I actually clamped my hand over my mouth at one point, and I am not exaggerating this at all; c) life history of his own famousness and drug use that I mentally narrated by thinking to myself \"don't care, don't care\"; d) the death of his (admittedly horrible sounding) father perpetrated by possibly I) the author himself II) Clayton from Less Than Zero III) Patrick Bateman from American Psycho . I've read all his other books so god knew I'd read this one, but I finished it wishing I really, really hadn't. If I can keep you from reading it, I've done my job. ...more I heard a lot of great things about this book, but i wasn't that impressed. It was just a little too over the top. Admittedly, this over the top aspect made it really amusing; the plot is basically that Bret Easton Ells (by writing himself in as the protagonist, he 'does an impression of himself') is in his 40's and still throwing big parties during which he offers mediocre coke to his guest and then steals away to his office to do enormous lines of much better coke. He's got a wife and kids and I heard a lot of great things about this book, but i wasn't that impressed. It was just a little too over the top. Admittedly, this over the top aspect made it really amusing; the plot is basically that Bret Easton Ells (by writing himself in as the protagonist, he 'does an impression of himself') is in his 40's and still throwing big parties during which he offers mediocre coke to his guest and then steals away to his office to do enormous lines of much better coke. He's got a wife and kids and doesn't really care too much about them-- their existence in his life is more than anything else an example of his futile attempt to get sober. Basically the story begins to unfold when he tries to get a Furby for his daughter, but they're all sold out. So he asks his coke dealer to get him one, which leads to a lot of, well, fucked up shit. Without giving away too much, the book's most interesting characteristic is that it somehow slides from autobiography into a tongue-in-cheek Stephen King parody (the horror scenes of which involve the Furby). Funny, but not nearly as good as his other books. ...more So I've spent this year developing a love/hate relationship with Bret Easton Ellis' work. I don't understand why his books fascinate me or even why they work as compelling fiction, yet I keep reading them because his voice is so distinct. Disturbing, empty, and shallow most of the time, but distinct. Then along comes Lunar Park. I spent 90% of the book hating it, wondering why I was still reading it, and then found the ending beautiful. No. Really. I didn't think Ellis could write something that So I've spent this year developing a love/hate relationship with Bret Easton Ellis' work. I don't understand why his books fascinate me or even why they work as compelling fiction, yet I keep reading them because his voice is so distinct. Disturbing, empty, and shallow most of the time, but distinct. Then along comes Lunar Park. I spent 90% of the book hating it, wondering why I was still reading it, and then found the ending beautiful. No. Really. I didn't think Ellis could write something that would fit under my (admittedly very personal) definition of \"beautiful\" anything. Knowing he wrote this before Imperial Bedrooms (see my two word review for my opinion on that one) renders it even more puzzling. Oh whatever. Obviously I can't articulate the feelings finishing this book has aroused. I liked it. I don't know why. ...more It seems like at least 40% of the book is about how you just can't trust Bret Easton Ellis. The horrific story of an untrustworthy narrator is a good trick if you can pull it off, but I'm not feeling like Lunar Park pulls it off as Will Self's My Idea of Fun, Jim Thompson's After Dark My Sweet, or The Usual Suspects. Though the book is creepy in places, I never found it scary. Though the book is intended to be a parody of suburban life, I do not find that part of the book compelling, funny, or p It seems like at least 40% of the book is about how you just can't trust Bret Easton Ellis. The horrific story of an untrustworthy narrator is a good trick if you can pull it off, but I'm not feeling like Lunar Park pulls it off as Will Self's My Idea of Fun, Jim Thompson's After Dark My Sweet, or The Usual Suspects. Though the book is creepy in places, I never found it scary. Though the book is intended to be a parody of suburban life, I do not find that part of the book compelling, funny, or particularly pointed. The use of brand names pushed me into anachronism fact check territory, which I did not enjoy. There were interesting story elements here. They did not come together for me. I did really want to like this. But I just didn't. I only read about 60% of this before I got really really sick of hearing about fictional Bret Easton Ellis. ...more LUNAR PARK is a bit of a departure for Bret Easton Ellis in that it's more of a traditional page-turner than anything else he has previously written. It's also a lot less cynical and gratuitously shocking than most of his previous work. In the novel, Ellis himself is the main character, and he does an brilliant job of blurring the lines between autobiography and fiction. Interestingly, he seems to take especial delight in presenting as negative an image of himself as possible, making for a highl LUNAR PARK is a bit of a departure for Bret Easton Ellis in that it's more of a traditional page-turner than anything else he has previously written. It's also a lot less cynical and gratuitously shocking than most of his previous work. In the novel, Ellis himself is the main character, and he does an brilliant job of blurring the lines between autobiography and fiction. Interestingly, he seems to take especial delight in presenting as negative an image of himself as possible, making for a highly amusing--but not terribly sympathetic--narrator. The story is an odd mix of dark comedy and horror, but, as this is a Bret Easton Ellis novel, the book is also replete with rich subtext, poetic descriptions, and copious amounts of scenes portraying addiction and drug abuse. Apart from the ending, which left me a little confused on some points, I found LUNAR PARK to be a memorable, thoroughly enjoyable novel, and one of Ellis' best. ...more 3.5/5 I'm not the most well-read guy on Bret Easton Ellis, not by a long shot. And I should be better read considering I enjoy the guys writing style quite a bit. I like the minimalist style, and I enjoy his brand of satire. But it was interesting to me how he made a memoir that was mostly fiction, and used that to examine a bunch of different themes such as family or even writing. That he made it a suburban gothic horror makes it even more fascinating. I won't pretend to understand everything as 3.5/5 I'm not the most well-read guy on Bret Easton Ellis, not by a long shot. And I should be better read considering I enjoy the guys writing style quite a bit. I like the minimalist style, and I enjoy his brand of satire. But it was interesting to me how he made a memoir that was mostly fiction, and used that to examine a bunch of different themes such as family or even writing. That he made it a suburban gothic horror makes it even more fascinating. I won't pretend to understand everything as it's a bit of a psychological mindfuck, but I got the general idea. I enjoyed the beginning where he looked back at his career and enjoyed it the entire way through. I wouldn't say I was really grabbed most of the time but I was also never bored. As a horror it mostly succeeds. There were actually a couple scenes that I really liked that scared me. When he goes on his computer and finally watches the video, that was the high point for me. It creeped me out. It's obvious Ellis is a talented writer because he pulls off psychological horror, satire and a memoir all in the same book. It's true that most of the book isn't really true, but it's still cool to think about what part is drawn (and clearly exaggerated) from his real life. Lunar Park isn't a favourite of mine but it was a good read, and the mish-mash of genres especially appealed to me. Check it out, it's not nearly as bad as some of the reviews here say. But keep in mind that I also liked Glamorama. ...more Lunar Park lleg\u00f3 muy bien recomendado a mis manos, pero la precedente media lectura de Psic\u00f3pata Americano no me dejaba aproximarme a la \u00faltima novela de Bret Easton Ellis sin resquemores y recelos. Pero yo soy insistente y me gustan los retos. Es bueno leer Lunar Park sin saber nada del libro ni del autor. Pero Bret es ya autor de culto as\u00ed que supongo que muy pocas personas llegar\u00e1n a leerlo v\u00edrgenes. Digamos que yo con Bret tuve unos escarceos que no pasaron de los previos con Psic\u00f3pata, as\u00ed q Lunar Park lleg\u00f3 muy bien recomendado a mis manos, pero la precedente media lectura de Psic\u00f3pata Americano no me dejaba aproximarme a la \u00faltima novela de Bret Easton Ellis sin resquemores y recelos. Pero yo soy insistente y me gustan los retos. Es bueno leer Lunar Park sin saber nada del libro ni del autor. Pero Bret es ya autor de culto as\u00ed que supongo que muy pocas personas llegar\u00e1n a leerlo v\u00edrgenes. Digamos que yo con Bret tuve unos escarceos que no pasaron de los previos con Psic\u00f3pata, as\u00ed que con Lunar estaba casi pura. Por lo tanto, para quien no ha le\u00eddo nada de Bret le recomiendo que lea de inmediato Lunar Park sin leer una sola l\u00ednea de las que vienen a continuaci\u00f3n y se hagoa solito su propia opini\u00f3n. El principal gancho y atractivo de Lunar es su archicitadas influencias autobiogr\u00e1ficas. Lo confieso: lleg\u00f3 una parte del libro en que me puse a investigar sobre Bret para ver qu\u00e9 era cierto y qu\u00e9 no, y qui\u00e9nes eran qui\u00e9nes. Para mi fue divertid\u00edsimo descubr\u00ed algunas cosas morbosas de la vida de Bret que a la final no le pusieron ni le quietaron nada al libro en s\u00ed mismo. No pierdo de vista que es un comportamiento obsesivo y necio; porque \u00a1vamos es una novela! \u00bfqu\u00e9 importa d\u00f3nde empieza la realidad y d\u00f3nde termina la ficci\u00f3n? Pero este es el primer aspecto emp\u00edrico de Lunar Park. Por all\u00ed le\u00ed que este aspecto autobiografico-ficci\u00f3n es llamado \u201cmetalectura\u201d y me parece que le va el t\u00e9rmino. Pero, creo yo, que el mayor atributo de esta novela es esa propiedad sagrada que tienen algunos libros de no dejarse soltar. Lunar Park se le pega a uno en las manos. Yo me encerraba en el ba\u00f1o para que me dejaran leerla en paz, ojo que la le\u00eda tambi\u00e9n fuera del ba\u00f1o: caminando, en el metro, al medio d\u00eda en el almuerzo, antes de dormir porque Lunar tiene un ritmo magnifico que va de interesante, entretenido, curioso a vertiginoso. Por \u00faltimo Lunar Park da miedo, pero del sabroso. Tengo que enfatizar que esta es una experiencia absolutamente subjetiva y depende claro de que le libro de verdad me gust\u00f3 y me dej\u00e9 enganchar en el ambiente que construye el autor, seguro que hay miles de personas que ni sentir\u00e1n coquito; pero yo s\u00ed me crisp\u00e9 en su debido momento, y \u00a1eso no tiene precio! Para todo lo dem\u00e1s existe Mastercard. En total tenemos una novela \u2013 que evidentemente est\u00e1 escrita a la perfecci\u00f3n \u2013 que se publica en un momento estrat\u00e9gico de la vida del autor despu\u00e9s de ocho a\u00f1os de su \u00faltimo libro, que te engancha prometi\u00e9ndote escandalosas revelaciones de su vida, que luego te confunde al empezar a enredarse con personajes de otros libros y personajes de la vida real cuyo ritmo se centra en las patolog\u00edas m\u00e1s temidas de las relaciones padre-hijo y creador-creatura, que te pone de punta con unos acontecimientos que desbocan en absurdos, sobrenaturales y aterrorizantes; y termina cerrando como Diox manda \u2013 es que estas obras tan ambiciosas terminan poniendo al torta al final \u2013 con un capitulo emotivo que no es lo que parece ni est\u00e1 dirigido a quien se dirige. Cito al Blog Sue\u00f1os a Pila \u201cY Lunar Park guarda lo mejor para el final: las \u00faltimas 14 p\u00e1ginas conforman uno de los mejores finales alguna vez escritos. Y el libro termina pero no, perd\u00f3n, esos libros con finales as\u00ed no terminan nunca. Se convierten en epifan\u00eda pura.\u201d Es hacia el final donde se puede percibir el tono realmente \u201cpersonal\u201d del libro que m\u00e1s all\u00e1 de una realidad tangible se dirige hacia una realidad profundamente humana y emotiva que el autor sabe aprovechar en pro de alguna \u201credenci\u00f3n\u201d pendiente que es solicitada. Demonios, acabo de encontrar una rese\u00f1a mejor que la m\u00eda en P\u00e1gina12 y en LeerGratis hay una rese\u00f1a donde no le echan tantas flores; siempre es bueno leer a los detractores. ...more The author as central character in a book of fiction is becoming more the reality these days, and Lunar Park by Ellis takes this transgressive sub genre to another level. The reality part starts by Ellis recounting his evolution as a writer: his early success at 21 while still in college with his debut novel Less than Zero, the celebrity life in the Brat Pack of the literary elite in New York fuelled by powerful drugs and lots of sex with males and females alike, the controversial publication of The author as central character in a book of fiction is becoming more the reality these days, and Lunar Park by Ellis takes this transgressive sub genre to another level. The reality part starts by Ellis recounting his evolution as a writer: his early success at 21 while still in college with his debut novel Less than Zero, the celebrity life in the Brat Pack of the literary elite in New York fuelled by powerful drugs and lots of sex with males and females alike, the controversial publication of his third novel, American Psycho, that took him to new heights of fame and controversy but also to the lower depths of the drug culture and to the blunting of his creative genius. Reality then gives way to a fictitious memoir in which Ellis is in a battle to save his family from a serial killer who is out to get him and his family. Lunar Park is thus focused the rebirth of the literary brainiac, Ellis, and is a blend of fact and fiction, dwelling on the unabashed revelations of self destruction wrought by one to whom much was given. In this novel, Ellis is married to a celebrity movie star wife (the fiction), with two kids (one his own and the other his wife\u2019s from another man). He is trying desperately to be the good dad that his own father was not. And yet his bid to stay clean of drugs unravels and strange happenings start occurring around his family: a man who resembles Patrick Bateman of American Psycho starts re-appearing, the car his dead father drove keeps popping up in the most unexpected places, teenagers from the area are disappearing, and a serial killer is killing people off in a copy-cat style to what was written in the first draft of American Psycho, a version known only to Ellis. It\u2019s like the publisher said, \u201cBring it on, man \u2013 let\u2019s have a real cross-genre novel here \u2013 let\u2019s have a dysfunctional family story with a shot of horror, a touch of the supernatural, a boat load of drugs, a hint of murder, and let\u2019s give the reader an experience akin to bopping in and out of a hallucinatory drug trip.\u201d Plot notwithstanding, and the plot harkens to a Stephen King novel, the larger commentary of the book is on the neuroses of the rich and famous, where kids are in therapy by the age of six, where they are fed uppers and downers ad nauseam, and the mark of their generation is a perennial tremor in the hands. The adults are no better, guzzling drugs by the bucket load. Ellis cranks up the pace from a rather languorous start with a lot of back story (on himself) to a thriller laced with short sentences, dreams punctuated with reality, horror mixed with humour, until we are confronted with the real bad guys, all of whom live in Ellis\u2019 head and in his past. I found the weaving of fact and fiction into the novel interesting and was left with the question of how much of oneself does a novelist have to inject into his work before he himself becomes a parody? The other question I had was how much drugs and alcohol did Ellis actually imbibe in order to be still coherent enough to write this well-plotted story? Or did he, being a celebrity writer, have an army of script doctors and nurses around to help him? Interesting musings to be left behind after reading this book... ...more Bret Easton Ellis is a good writer, something I feel is obvious from this book. Had he not been, I would never have finished it. Ellis seems to have several ideas for this book. The false autobiographical story, the meta perspective, the Stephen King-homage, the father and son theme, the satirical look at the direction that modern society. I don't mind any of these, and some of these ought to be rigt up my alley. But to me, the book just didn't work. It starts of in a really interesting way, and Bret Easton Ellis is a good writer, something I feel is obvious from this book. Had he not been, I would never have finished it. Ellis seems to have several ideas for this book. The false autobiographical story, the meta perspective, the Stephen King-homage, the father and son theme, the satirical look at the direction that modern society. I don't mind any of these, and some of these ought to be rigt up my alley. But to me, the book just didn't work. It starts of in a really interesting way, and I was curiously tagging along with it, looking forward to where it would take me. But as the story (slowly) progresses, my interest starts to fade. Perhaps it was because he didn't manage to combine all the elements in a satisfying (to me) way? The father/son theme is perhaps the most interesting part of the book, and you could easily remove it and have the story work about just as well (maybe then only as a horror/satire). Looked at in isolation, the horror elements could have been form a Goosebumps novel, and somehow I feel Ellis could have solved it all in a more clever way. The description of the parties and the lavish lifestyle was most likely satirical, but maybe I just don't know enough about Ellis to get any joy out of them. Towards the end of the book, it almost feels like Ellis is as bored with the story as the reader is, just checking off the last pieces on the check list before he can call it quits. Going all meta, sentimental, tying up plot elements in a bow, leaving a little bit of mystery and then paint a nice picture. Though I did actually enjoy the last couple of pages of the book. But it was despite the rest of it, not because of it. I might be a bit harsh here. I did not like the book, but Ellis is talented, and this book probably deserves the love it gets. Just not from me. ...more This is probably the strangest book I've ever read. I didn't like it very much. Ellis seems to be unable to make up his mind as to what the book's story is about - it starts off depicting his earlier life (sex, drugs, booze, more sex and drugs) before it drifts over into an alcoholic trying to bond with his son, then suddenly things are possessed, the house is haunted, there is someone abducting young boys, a serial killer is on the loose, his marriage is falling apart, his son hates him, he's b This is probably the strangest book I've ever read. I didn't like it very much. Ellis seems to be unable to make up his mind as to what the book's story is about - it starts off depicting his earlier life (sex, drugs, booze, more sex and drugs) before it drifts over into an alcoholic trying to bond with his son, then suddenly things are possessed, the house is haunted, there is someone abducting young boys, a serial killer is on the loose, his marriage is falling apart, his son hates him, he's being stalked, and then the monsters arrive. A talented author could have made it work, but either Ellis just... isn't, or this is one of his low points. Everything seems mashed together, fragmented, like Ellis kept on visiting the NaNoWriMo forums looking for ways to kick-start his plot. Actually, that's what it read like - a car that keeps on dying, but the owner just won't let it go in peace. The only vaguely interesting bits were the scenes involving the Terby or the hair monster, but that's simply because by that time I was starved for ANYTHING that would grasp my attention. The book starts off by making so many references to drugs and sex that I'm afraid I'll catch an STD simply by touching it, and then it bores me silly for three hundred pages until expert of all things supernatural Bob Miller (and his sidekicks Sam and Dale) arrive with their EMFs and I could pretend I was reading Supernatural fanficton instead. Lastly, a possessed not-toy crawls in through the family dog's anus and takes possession of its body, turning it into a werewolf-like thing with wings. Yes, it's one of those books. ...more After getting my fill of Ellis' banality, narcissism and misogyny upon reading \"American Psycho\" (along with \"Less Than Zero\" and \"Rules of Engagement\") I vowed never to read another of his books. The author once touted as the Voice of my generation (Gen X) never qualified as such for me. The only reason I decided to read this one was a glowing review on the back of the book by none other than the arbiter of pop culture (gasp!) Stephen King. I at least had to see what made Uncle Stevie gush. The After getting my fill of Ellis' banality, narcissism and misogyny upon reading \"American Psycho\" (along with \"Less Than Zero\" and \"Rules of Engagement\") I vowed never to read another of his books. The author once touted as the Voice of my generation (Gen X) never qualified as such for me. The only reason I decided to read this one was a glowing review on the back of the book by none other than the arbiter of pop culture (gasp!) Stephen King. I at least had to see what made Uncle Stevie gush. The first forty pages of \"Lunar Park\" didn't exactly bode well; predictably (narcissistically), Ellis talks about his personal life and his experiences in writing his first four novels. Big shocker: Bret lives the life of his protagonists in \"Less Than Zero\"...yay! (read: BOORRRING). And then he throws a curveball in there...the \"autobiography\" starts turning into a mea culpa of sorts, admitting how horribly banal and stupid \"American Psycho\" was, and where he was coming from as a writer when he wrote it, and then recounts 14 days of his (fictional) life when he is haunted by demons and Patrick Bateman-wannabes and...wow...I was at times blown away by his eerie prose (out-\"Kinging\" Stephen King even) while grasping at love and family. If you are like me and thought you'd never pick up a B.E.E. book again after being disgusted by \"American Psycho\", trust me, give \"Lunar Park\" a try. I think you'll be pleasantly surprised. ...more A friend of mine who works for a magazine in New York told me they asked Bret Easton Ellis if he wanted to write for this magazine, and if so, what would he like to do? \"DVD Reviews.\" No hesitation on his part. I read a short remembrance of Tom Cruise in the late 80's by Bret a while back in Rolling Stone - it was really good. He writes well for magazines. The high and salient points come quickly and clearly. The man does not fiddle-faddle. I recognized that same tabloid style in Lunar Park, which A friend of mine who works for a magazine in New York told me they asked Bret Easton Ellis if he wanted to write for this magazine, and if so, what would he like to do? \"DVD Reviews.\" No hesitation on his part. I read a short remembrance of Tom Cruise in the late 80's by Bret a while back in Rolling Stone - it was really good. He writes well for magazines. The high and salient points come quickly and clearly. The man does not fiddle-faddle. I recognized that same tabloid style in Lunar Park, which is a suburban gothic horror story. The author is playing himself here, and he is beset variously by alcoholism, drugs, a murder in the next county, his own literary history, his tranquilized and sullen adopted son, an equally sullen dog, the ghost of his father, and a monstrous and changing house. It's hard to say, many months after I've read this, how it all resolves or fits together, but I can tell you that the book reads quickly, is frequently funny, grotesque, horrifying, and never deep, and it will definitely not make you feel good about yourself. Or the author. ...more His most self-indulgent book to date. The beginning chapters are perfect because it's somewhat autobiographical until it's not. The novel went from reality to fiction and that's where it felt flat. The other half of Ellis's reckoning with his father. It sucks. Disturbed. I chose this for book group (after being a member for several years, finally I get to choose a decent read. Fellow book group members will know I stay far away from Irish writers and anything cute.) This threw a spanner in the works, as planned, with one snooty one in particular, refusing to read it. Her loss. It was quite disturbing but I liked and that's all that mattered. Il libro \u00e8 semiautobiografico. Parla di uno scrittore, Bret Easton Ellis, giunto al successo con un libro decadente e perverso (Meno di zero... nei primi anni del liceo un amico lo aveva comprato e ce lo eravamo letto tutti quanti, ovviamente all'epoca mi aveva colpito enormemente) per poi bissare il successo con l'ancora pi\u00f9 sconvolgente American Psycho (che mi ha fatto letteralmente schifo, privo di senso). Uno scrittore che, giunto all'apice della fama, vive di droghe e alcool, incapace di man Il libro \u00e8 semiautobiografico\ufeff. Parla di uno scrittore, \ufeffBret Easton Ellis\ufeff\ufeff, giunto al successo con un libro decadente e perverso (\ufeffMeno di zero\ufeff\ufeff... nei primi anni del liceo un amico lo aveva comprato e ce lo eravamo letto tutti quanti, ovviamente all'epoca mi aveva colpito enormemente) per poi bissare il successo con l'ancora pi\u00f9 sconvolgente American Psycho\ufeff (che mi ha fatto letteralmente schifo, privo di senso). Uno scrittore che, giunto all'apice della fama, vive di droghe e alcool, incapace di mantenere una relazione o di trovare un senso nella propria vita. Una situazione familiare disastrosa alle spalle, una relazione critica con il padre. Sembra la sua autobiografia, completa di tour promozionali, idee, icnontri per i film tratti dai romanzi. Poi la parte \ufeffreale\ufeff scompare, e si passa all'\ufeffhorror\ufeff. Perch\u00e9 Bret, che nel frattempo per tentare di salvarsi si \u00e8 sposato con la vecchia fidanzata \ufeffJayne\ufeff dalla quale aveva avuto un figlio mai riconosciuto, si ritrova al centro di fenomeni paranormali e di una situazione familiare anche pi\u00f9 critica di quella che aveva abbandonato da tempo. Un figlio che non lo riconsoce e che non vuole avere niente a che fare con lui. Entrambi i bambini sotto psicofarmaci, come secondo la moda del momento per i figli di genitori ricchi. Problematici e drogati fin da piccoli, costretti a strafare per entrare gi\u00e0 dalle elementari in ottica Ivy League\ufeff. Una moglie attrice che spesso \u00e8 fuori casa, affidando i figli a tate e personale di servizio. Il terrore strisciante che cattura tutti gli abitanti della zona, mentre sempre pi\u00f9 ragazzini scompaiono nel nulla per non essere pi\u00f9 ritrovati. Fughe? Rapimenti? Il terrore di ogni genitore. Bret compreso. Poi ci sono gli omicidi. Qualcuno sta compiendo nella zona omicidi efferati, seguendo \ufeffpari pari\ufeff quanto compiuto da \ufeffPatrick\ufeff nel libro di Ellis, \ufeffAmerican Psycho\ufeff. E lo stesso Patrick sembra quasi materializzarsi, mostrarsi allo scrittore. E assieme a Patrick, il soprannaturale. Luci che vanno e vengono nella casa, pupazzi che diventano vivi e voraci, strane creature, strane ombre, mail misteriose legate alla morte del padre, addirittura un video della morte del padre. Macchine fantasma, strani fenomeni atmosferici, la casa stessa che si trasforma poco a poco nella vecchia casa dove Bret aveva vissuto da piccolo. Il mondo creato dalla penna di Ellis prende vita poco a poco, mentre le sue creazioni si scontrano con lo spettro paterno. Qualcuno gli vuole dare un avvertimento, qualcun altro non vuole farglielo avere. Lo scrittore in lui prende appunti, mentre lui vorrebbe solo scappare, fuggire, nascondersi e drogarsi. E alla fine, quando si fa un minimo di chiarezza su quanto successo... non si chiarisce un bel niente. La scomparsa di Robbie, l'identit\u00e0 di Clayton, la presenza delle creature nate dai suoi racconti, la presenza del padre. Niente di niente. Spiegazioni fumose e solamente abbozzate, accenni e nient'altro. Il libro si lascia leggere con piacere, ma alla fine \u00e8 frustrante il non arrivare a nessuna conclusione definitiva. E dato che l'unico pregio era la scorrevolezza e il fatto che non si facesse odiare, non ho certo un buon parere del libro stesso. No, decisamente Ellis non fa per me. ...more El escritor americano Bret Easton Ellis (Los Angeles, 1964) publica 'Lunar Park', en donde el autor americano arremete contra su propia biograf\u00eda. Una mezcla de realidad y ficci\u00f3n, donde se confunde la vor\u00e1gine de la vida de autodestrucci\u00f3n de un autor de \u00e9xito que reconduce a la vida familiar, con una serie de asesinatos y desapariciones en una atm\u00f3sfera fantasmal. Lunar Park es una buena novela de terror, recomendable incluso para lectores que no sientan particular inter\u00e9s por las andanzas per El escritor americano Bret Easton Ellis (Los Angeles, 1964) publica 'Lunar Park', en donde el autor americano arremete contra su propia biograf\u00eda. Una mezcla de realidad y ficci\u00f3n, donde se confunde la vor\u00e1gine de la vida de autodestrucci\u00f3n de un autor de \u00e9xito que reconduce a la vida familiar, con una serie de asesinatos y desapariciones en una atm\u00f3sfera fantasmal. Lunar Park es una buena novela de terror, recomendable incluso para lectores que no sientan particular inter\u00e9s por las andanzas personales del autor de American Psycho. De hecho es mucho m\u00e1s agradable leer la novela sin preguntarse todo el tiempo qu\u00e9 partes son reales y cu\u00e1les inventadas, simplemente disfrutando de la historia y los personajes. El problema es que en seguida nos tropezamos con el fantasma de Patrick Bateman, y para todos los que hemos le\u00eddo American Psycho se trata de un reencuentro irresistible, un poderoso atractivo que amenaza con fagocitar todo el inter\u00e9s de la novela. A trav\u00e9s de la met\u00e1fora de los monstruos, las casas encantadas y los fantasmas del pasado, Lunar Park habla sobre la relaci\u00f3n de padres e hijos. El propio Ellis ha confesado que su deseo de escribir una novela de terror pura (\u00e9l siempre consider\u00f3 American Psycho una comedia oscura) proviene de su admiraci\u00f3n por Stephen King, y es inevitable establecer un par de conexiones con la obra del autor de Maine: El Resplandor tambi\u00e9n abordaba el conflicto de padres e hijos, con fantasmas y casas encantadas; y por otra parte, La Mitad Oscura contaba la historia de un autor que ten\u00eda que enfrentarse con un asesino de su propia creaci\u00f3n (en aquel caso era un alter ego, un pseud\u00f3nimo encarnado). Pero en conclusi\u00f3n, Bret Easton Ellis es un autor con personalidad y recursos, una voz propia que merece ser escuchada tambi\u00e9n cuando se adentra por terrenos que no le son tan naturales como en el caso del terror de Lunar Park. ...more Difficult to assign a blunt 'stars out of five' rating to, this was slow and unlikeable for the majority of the first half, before vacillating between amazing and amazingly silly in the second half. The three-star rating I give this overall is not to reflect my opinion on this as 'average', it's an uncertain compromise for a book I was eventually uncertain about. This novel is pseudo-autobiographical in tone, dealing with a writer called Bret Easton Ellis who became famous at a young age for writ Difficult to assign a blunt 'stars out of five' rating to, this was slow and unlikeable for the majority of the first half, before vacillating between amazing and amazingly silly in the second half. The three-star rating I give this overall is not to reflect my opinion on this as 'average', it's an uncertain compromise for a book I was eventually uncertain about. This novel is pseudo-autobiographical in tone, dealing with a writer called Bret Easton Ellis who became famous at a young age for writing the challenging and shocking books that the author actually wrote ('Less Than Zero', 'American Psycho', 'The Rules of Attraction' especially). The opening quarter of the book is heavy on the set-up of this character as a drug-addled, alcoholic, unreliable, unlikeable, wreck of a man. I found this part of the book hard to get through - a lack of sympathy with the character/narrator (I remained unsure for a long while about which parts were truth and which were fiction) meant I just found this all showy and vulgar and uninteresting. The second half of the book was a lot better, as a story is woven out of the protagonist's attempts to restore his relationship with his new wife and her kids (his formerly estranged son and stepdaughter) and in adjusting to the death of his father some time previously. Without mentioning spoilers, the 'main' story is a complex and unusual one, clever and challenging - but (key for me) I felt the author did get away with it, despite the very strange plot. So overall, I am very glad I read it. I just felt very bogged down with the first part of the book, and am not convinced whether this was necessary to set-up the character as he was, or if it could've been trimmed/lessened without any loss of impact in the latter half of the book. ...more Darkly comic and genuinely horrific in places, this novel is Ellis's best work since his debut, Less Than Zero. Writing in the first person as a bizarre alcoholic, drug-addicted parody of himself, Ellis takes us on a dark journey into his celebrity lifestyle: married to an A-list Hollywood actress, father of a son he's estranged from, living in upstate New York There are various plot strands ranging from Ellis's troubled relationship with his dead father, the disappearance of a number of boys fro Darkly comic and genuinely horrific in places, this novel is Ellis's best work since his debut, Less Than Zero. Writing in the first person as a bizarre alcoholic, drug-addicted parody of himself, Ellis takes us on a dark journey into his celebrity lifestyle: married to an A-list Hollywood actress, father of a son he's estranged from, living in upstate New York There are various plot strands ranging from Ellis's troubled relationship with his dead father, the disappearance of a number of boys from his son's school, to the activities of a serial killer who is apparently copying the killings from Ellis's earlier novel American Psycho. The book is a fantastic read, easily the most enjoyable Ellis novel I've read. Yes his trademark cynicism is there along with the sense of fear and dislocation, but there is a new maturity to some of his writing, especially at the end, which is both moving and elegiac. This is not a novel for a first timer to dive into. You'd be better off starting at the beginning with Less Than Zero. But for those who have read his earlier stuff, I'd recommend this. ...more<---C>Bret Easton Ellis</---C>", "Title": "Lunar Park"},
