{"Comments": "This is the second Powers book I have read, and it left me wanting to read more. Like Orfeo , this is a book which shines with a deep love and knowledge of music of all kinds. This one centres on a mixed race American family of musical geniuses. The central figures are Delia Daley, a singer from an upwardly mobile black family,<---M> her husband</---M>, the Jewish physicist David Strom who has fled Nazi Germany, and their children - Jonah, a talented classical singer who struggles to avoid being typecast and This is the second Powers book I have read, and it left me wanting to read more. Like Orfeo , this is a book which shines with a deep love and knowledge of music of all kinds. This one centres on a mixed race American family of musical geniuses. The central figures are Delia Daley, a singer from an upwardly mobile black family, her husband, the Jewish physicist David Strom who has fled Nazi Germany, and their children - Jonah, a talented classical singer who struggles to avoid being typecast and diminished as a black singer, Joseph, his accompanist and the narrator who sees himself as a lesser musician, and Ruth, a talented singer as a child who is darker than her brothers and abandons music for a life working to help black people with a husband tainted by his association with the Black Panthers. The family story is complex and is interwoven with the tragic history of racial struggles and conflicts in America, spiced by a liberal sprinkling of scientific ideas. Powers' control of these many strands is masterly, and the whole is very satisfying and surprisingly readable given the complexity of some of the ideas. I couldn't help thinking that the ending, for all its formal elegance, did not quite ring as true as much of what preceded it (<---B>I can't say more about that without spoiling</---B>). Maybe not quite the best book I have read this year, but it did come very close. ...more Every once in a while you'll get into one of those conversations with an acquaintance who thinks he or she is smarter than you in which you list a string of books you've read recently and authors you particularly enjoy. Invariably Michael Chabon's last name (shay-bawn) is mispronounced in these conversations. If you want to win the next conversation like this you have, I highly recommend delving quickly and deeply into the urvruh of <---A>Richard Powers</---A>, who, despite never fully penetrating the upper e Every once in a while you'll get into one of those conversations with an acquaintance who thinks he or she is smarter than you in which you list a string of books you've read recently and authors you particularly enjoy. Invariably Michael Chabon's last name (shay-bawn) is mispronounced in these conversations. If you want to win the next conversation like this you have, I highly recommend delving quickly and deeply into the urvruh of Richard Powers, who, despite never fully penetrating the upper echelon of modern novelists, has been a finalist for the National Book Award more often than Jane Smiley has ovulated, which is impressive because Jane Smiley ovulates at a rate three times the national average. You should read In <+++>The Time of Our Singing</+++>, and other Powers books, because they are excellent. You should also read them because when Paul Besterhooz, Sarah's ex-boyfriend and grade-A thunderdouche busts out Ian McEwan as one of his favorite writers, you can fire back with Richard Powers' more nuanced (and, let's face it, the only way Atonement could be more overrated is if it was written by a recently-liberated Afghani woman) take on guilt and consciousness in literally all of his books. In <+++>The Time of Our Singing</+++> is about race in America and opera singing and also math. ...more I had a hard time finishing this book, because the ending was so good that I couldn't stop crying. Not because it was sad, but because it was so unbelievably good, and because I'd never before read a long book with an ending that lived up to its heft. Seriously, it took me like half an hour to read the last few pages, because I kept flinging down the book and pacing around my apartment, sobbing hysterically. Don't get me wrong, this book is not perfect, and it definitely falters in places. However I had a hard time finishing this book, because the ending was so good that I couldn't stop crying. Not because it was sad, but because it was so unbelievably good, and because I'd never before read a long book with an ending that lived up to its heft. Seriously, it took me like half an hour to read the last few pages, because I kept flinging down the book and pacing around my apartment, sobbing hysterically. Don't get me wrong, this book is not perfect, and it definitely falters in places.<---F> However, the ending is</---F>. Perfect, I mean. ...more I feel a bit guilty giving this book only three stars. Yes, it's a highly acclaimed novel, it's relevant and praiseworthy and it tackles huge universal and specifically American themes through the individual stories of the Strom family members, music lovers all. It's almost perfectly constructed, the main narrator Joseph is full of solemn sensitivity and insight, and the author's reflection on (and use of) time and space is mind-grabbing. The problem is the novel's relentlessnes; not just the ove I feel a bit guilty giving this book only three stars. Yes, it's a highly acclaimed novel, it's relevant and praiseworthy and it tackles huge universal and specifically American themes through the individual stories of the Strom family members, music lovers all. It's almost perfectly constructed, the main narrator Joseph is full of solemn sensitivity and insight, and the author's reflection on (and use of) time and space is mind-grabbing. The problem is the novel's relentlessnes; not just the overbearing musical metaphors and references, dosed to the saturation point, that I can deal with (or skim over, sure) No, there's a relentless, overwritten aspect that permeates the whole novel; the points are driven in with hammers, passages repeated and pounded out mercilessly. Aside from little bro narrator Joey, many of the other characters are also relentlessy single-minded in their brooding obstination, which might just have been the author's point, but please, pity on the reader, who has to deal with them for 600+ pages. But for me, the real pity is that the most intriguing and provocative 'time loop' elements are used so lightly and sparingly, while other, less interesting aspects are poured out like lead. Subtract about 200 pages for a great novel. ...more \"The Time of our Singing\" is a magnificent book and I am grateful for one of my most rewarding reading experiences ever. The story starts with a flourish and one marvels at the author's supreme skill, throughout the book's 630 pages, in keeping up the pace, widening the emotional resonances and deepening the narrative's cogency, eventually to let it flower into a profoundly moving and intellectually satisfying finale. It is heartwarming to see that our age - so worn down at times by the pressure \"The Time of our Singing\" is a magnificent book and I am grateful for one of my most rewarding reading experiences ever. The story starts with a flourish and one marvels at the author's supreme skill, throughout the book's 630 pages, in keeping up the pace, widening the emotional resonances and deepening the narrative's cogency, eventually to let it flower into a profoundly moving and intellectually satisfying finale. It is heartwarming to see that our age - so worn down at times by the pressure of commercialism - is still able to provide a fold for this kind of artistry of the highest order. The book is constructed around three main themes woven into another as spiraling helices: time, race and music. It is tempting to say that the time dimension is foundational in this book as it seems to tells us something very basic about the universe we happen to inhabit. But that would set us on the wrong foot when trying to navigate a complex narrative fabric in which our ways of socially encoding the colour of a skin or shaping a musical phrase are equally potent reflections of our world's unfolding order. Time is injected into the story by means of David Strom, an eccentric quantum physicist who escaped Europe in the face of unstoppable Nazi madness and marries a black woman shortly after his arrival in the US. Throughout the book, Strom wrestles with the intractable problem of the very nature of time and what this means for us, transients in an expanding universe. According to Strom, there is no unidirectional arrow of time: \" ... The tenses are a stubborn illusion. The whole unholy trio of them have no mathematical distinct existence. Past and future both lay folded up in the misleading lead of the present. All three are just different cuts through the same deep map. `Was' and `will be'. All are fixed discernable coordinates on the plane that holds all moving nows.\" Later on in the book we learn that this conception of time has fundamental implications for the nature of causality: \"... events can move continuously into their own local future while turning back on their own past.\" Ergo \" ... there is no such thing as race. Race is only real when you freeze time, if you invent a zero point for your tribe. If you make the past an origin, then you fix the future. Race is a dependent variable. A path, a moving process. We all move along a curve that will break down and rebuild us all.\" This is just a crude approximation of a wonderfully rich theme, given voice by Powers by means of an endearing fictional character, and masterfully woven into the finest meshes of the narrative fabric. (Incidentally, the character of David Strom may well be loosely inspired by the real-life quantum physicist David Bohm, who developed a holistic interpretation of quantum theory by asserting that any particular element of space may have a field which unfolds into the whole whilst the whole unfolds in it. Bohm referred to this concept as the `implicate order'. There are other similarities between Strom and Bohm (as there are significant differences)). In the racially-torn environment of post-war America, Strom and his coloured wife Delia Daley decide to raise their three `mixed' children `beyond race', unimpeded by a perverse system of classification and free to carve out their own destiny. Indeed for them `race' is a dependent, not an originative variable. The Stroms act on the believe that it is wrong to constrain people's opportunity space upfront by collaring them with a socially constructed, basically immoral designation. Music, and particularly the canon of Western art music, provides the aesthetic and supposedly racially neutral matrix in which the Stroms' family life is embedded. Their three children embody different reactions to this `experiment'. Jonah, the eldest, develops into a breathtakingly accomplished singer who takes this idea of racially-neutral, aesthetic purity to its artistic extreme. Ruth, the youngest, throws herself on the other horn of the racial dilemma. Rather than to negate race, she turns it into the foundation of her militant life. Joey, whose voice tells the story, is the mediator between these two extremes. He devotes the first part of his life to his brother's career as a piano accompanist. Later on he joins his sister as a music teacher in a black community school. From Joey's hands blossoms an incredible musical finale when he rehearses with a class of children in the presence of his elder brother: the immutable, artificial perfection of Western art music and the lived, participatory spirit of gospel blend in an affirmative, improvisatory `contrapunctus' of countless voices, a musical `glass bead game' drawing on \"... all the chords (...) needed to get anywhere pitches could go.\" In \"The Time of our Singing\" Powers refracts the implicate order of an enfolded, hyperdimensional universe through a fractally layered prism of a nuclear family of five people, of their extended family and of the broader society in which they are embedded, all grappling with the dilemmas of time, race and music. It is an affirmative story, but it is not redemptive. Until the very end, the assertion that \"bird and fish can fall in love\" - expressing a belief in the power of hybridisation, in transgressing fixed categories in favour of the whole - is followed by the irreducible, eternally unsettling question \"But where will they build their nest?\" The end is open, floating on David Strom's `time curves on configuration space', leaving us to our own precarious judgment and memory: \"If our father was right, time doesn't flow, but is. In such a world, all the things we ever will be or were, we are. But then, in such a world, who we are must be all things. (...) Until we come from everyplace we've been, we won't get everywhere we're going.\" All this might have been stuff for a solid academic dissertation. But the wonder of this book is that Richard Powers has the ability to develop such a profound meditation over hundreds of pages, virtuosic in his meshing of themes, uncannily precise in his prose, remarkably clearheaded in his command of the underlying ideas. A magisterial work, no doubt about it. ...more Il primo impatto non \u00e8 stato affatto semplice: lo stile di Powers \u00e8 ricco, ripetitivo, tende all'autocompiacimento. Powers sa scrivere bene ed \u00e8 lui il primo a saperlo; quello che non sa \u00e8 quando fermarsi con le sue frasi ad effetto e quando dare invece pi\u00f9 spazio ai suoi personaggi. Per\u00f2 \u00e8 solo l'impatto iniziale: 2-300 pagine dopo la prima, quando lo stile iniziale \u00e8 andato diluendosi - o, pi\u00f9 probabilmente, la storia oramai \u00e8 entrata nel vivo e diventa difficile riuscire a mettere gi\u00f9 questo Il primo impatto non \u00e8 stato affatto semplice: lo stile di Powers \u00e8 ricco, ripetitivo, tende all'autocompiacimento. Powers sa scrivere bene ed \u00e8 lui il primo a saperlo; quello che non sa \u00e8 quando fermarsi con le sue frasi ad effetto e quando dare invece pi\u00f9 spazio ai suoi personaggi. Per\u00f2 \u00e8 solo l'impatto iniziale: 2-300 pagine dopo la prima, quando lo stile iniziale \u00e8 andato diluendosi - o, pi\u00f9 probabilmente, la storia oramai \u00e8 entrata nel vivo e diventa difficile riuscire a mettere gi\u00f9 questo tomo da 800 pagine -, allora s\u00ec che questo libro si rivela veramente splendido. E splendido su pi\u00f9 punti: nella trama, nei personaggi, nell'aspetto storico della vicenda, nei temi trattati con tanta delicatezza che vanno a toccare sfere tanto differenti, dalla musica alla situazione razziale in America. Powers ambienta la sua narrazione nell'America del secolo appena trascorso, quando dall'incontro casuale di una donna nera appassionata di canto e di un fisico ebreo fuggito dalla Germania nasce una storia d'amore che \u00e8 destinata a trovare solamente ostacoli. Dall'unione dei due nascono tre figli, tanto differenti fra loro ma con in comune l'essere frutto di un'unione non prevista: quella fra un immigrato bianco e una donna di colore. Con un'identit\u00e0 che far\u00e0 di loro tre persone \"troppo nere per essere accettate dai bianchi, troppo bianche per riconoscersi nei neri\", i tre affronteranno in maniera del tutto differente la strada davanti a s\u00e9: il maggiore si riveler\u00e0 un cantante fra i pi\u00f9 dotati del periodo, il secondo lo seguir\u00e0 come pianista pur cercando per oltre trent'anni una vita autonoma e non da comprimario, la terza sceglier\u00e0 la carta della ricerca delle proprie origini, fino alla rivendicazione del suo essere parte della comunit\u00e0 nera. In un'America devastata dal razzismo, le figure storiche del periodo saranno tutte presenti nella narrazione di Powers: dal concerto del '39 di Marion Anderson al Lincoln Memorial all'assassinio di Martin Luther King, passando per le rivolte di Harlem e Philadelphia fino a quelle recentissime a Los Angeles (2000), dal continuo terrore di un popolo che vede sottrarsi la libert\u00e0 fino al tentativo delle Black Panthers di riappropriarsi dei propri spazi. In questo ambiente la storia della famiglia Strom, questi tre ragazzi nati da un'unione fortemente voluta, si dipana per oltre quarant'anni, con frequenti incursioni nel passato dei genitori e dei nonni: ne escon fuori personaggi unici, fra comprimari e principali, ognuno altamente caratterizzato, e si rimane affascinati dal modo con cui Powers ha intrecciato le storie, di quanti sentimenti sia riuscito a inserire in questo libro. \u00c8 in effetti un libro pieno di sentimenti: dall'amore (quello di coppia, ma anche e soprattutto quello verso la propria famiglia), all'odio (spesso esterno al nucleo degli Strom, ma che in pi\u00f9 di un'occasione sar\u00e0 tanto intenso da distruggere legami ritenuti solidi a prima vista), dall'amicizia (rappresentata dal rapporto fra i due fratelli maggiori) al rimorso, dalla dignit\u00e0 al perdono (impossibile per una generazione, duramente cercato da quella successiva): \"Il tempo di una canzone\" nelle sue tantissime pagine vi far\u00e0 commuovere e arrabbiare, vi terr\u00e0 con il fiato sospeso e vi costringer\u00e0 a leggere le ultime 100-150 pagine in un'apnea di qualche ora. E non \u00e8 tutto qui: Powers mette in piedi un romanzo che al suo interno non parla solo di vicende razziali, ma \u00e8 una dichiarazione d'amore verso la musica e verso il canto, vera colonna sonora della vita degli Strom e di tutta la famiglia dei Daley, ma anche una ricerca sui misteri del tempo e del ripetersi delle vicende, qui rappresentate dal lavoro dell'eccentrico padre di famiglia, fisico ebreo che vive in un mondo tutto suo e che \"non sembra preoccuparsi di niente che sia di poco pi\u00f9 piccolo delle sue amate galassie\". Ed \u00e8 proprio da quest'ultimo punto che tutta la trama sembra chiudersi in un circolo infinito, un ripetersi che se da una parte ci ricorda l'immutabilit\u00e0 di certi comportamenti sconsiderati nella storia umana, dall'altro fa sperare nell'eterno ricongiungersi di chi oramai \u00e8 gi\u00e0 passato. Quattro stelle e mezzo. Powers ha scritto un libro che consiglierei a chi \u00e8 alla ricerca di un grande romanzo e al tempo stesso di capire maggiormente il problema razziale nell'America dell'ultimo secolo. \u00c8 un libro facilmente catalogabile nella narrazione moderna grazie al suo stile tipicamente americano di raccontare vicende tanto attuali (De Lillo, Roth, Dos Passos, ...) e grandi saghe famigliari (Steinbeck, Franzen, Fante, Eugenides, ...). Non \u00e8 un libro perfetto, a partire dallo stile di Powers a tratti troppo enfatico fino ad una lunghezza che poteva essere contenuta con 2-300 pagine in meno, ma \u00e8 un libro che sicuramente rimarr\u00e0 impresso. ...more Dit boek is een absoluut meesterwerk! Het is \u00e9\u00e9n van de beste boeken die ik ooit heb gelezen. Het is eigenlijk onmogelijk om een reactie te geven die recht doet aan dit boek. Ik wil wel proberen een indicatie te geven waar dit boek o.a. over gaat: gezin, familiebanden, trouw, liefde, moederliefde, broederliefde, hoop, segregatie, discriminatie, interpretatie Amerikaanse geschiedenis twintigste eeuw vanuit gezichtspunt van zowel zwarte en blanke mensen, idealen nastreven, onvermogen en onwil tot Dit boek is een absoluut meesterwerk! Het is \u00e9\u00e9n van de beste boeken die ik ooit heb gelezen. Het is eigenlijk onmogelijk om een reactie te geven die recht doet aan dit boek. Ik wil wel proberen een indicatie te geven waar dit boek o.a. over gaat: gezin, familiebanden, trouw, liefde, moederliefde, broederliefde, hoop, segregatie, discriminatie, interpretatie Amerikaanse geschiedenis twintigste eeuw vanuit gezichtspunt van zowel zwarte en blanke mensen, idealen nastreven, onvermogen en onwil tot toenadering, misverstanden, het zoeken, vermijden en accepteren van eigen plek, opstandigheid, woede, genialiteit, kernenergie, atoombom, Einstein en relativiteit, de theorie over het stromen van de tijd, maar vooral over muziek, waar virtuoos over geschreven wordt. Volgens Powers is muziek het enige universele communicatiemiddel en dat geldt zowel voor het verleden als voor de toekomst. Dit boek heeft mij de ogen geopend voor veel zaken, waar ik nooit over had nagedacht. Voordat ik mensen afschrik: het is totaal niet belerend. ...more Ensemble E quando leggendo l'ultima parola e chiudendo il libro, ti accorgerai che le lacrime scendono da sole e che starai piangendo, quasi a dirotto, non solo per la storia, o per la conclusione della storia (perch\u00e9 leggendola capirai anche che questa storia non ha una fine perch\u00e9 il tempo in cui si svolge \u00e8 quello di una canzone e per sempre), ma per la bellezza dell'opera, ti verr\u00e0 voglia di restare ancora fra le pagine di questo libro, incastrato dal fluire della prosa di Powers e della musi Ensemble E quando leggendo l'ultima parola e chiudendo il libro, ti accorgerai che le lacrime scendono da sole e che starai piangendo, quasi a dirotto, non solo per la storia, o per la conclusione della storia (perch\u00e9 leggendola capirai anche che questa storia non ha una fine perch\u00e9 il tempo in cui si svolge \u00e8 quello di una canzone e per sempre), ma per la bellezza dell'opera, ti verr\u00e0 voglia di restare ancora fra le pagine di questo libro, incastrato dal fluire della prosa di Powers e della musica che ti ha accompagnato per tutte le ottocentoquaranta pagine di questo romanzo monumentale, per scivolare fra le note e lasciarti cullare ancora dalle voci vellutate di Delia Daley e David Strom, la giovane infermiera aspirante cantante di colore di Philadelphia e il fisico ebreo tedesco fuggito negli Stati Uniti dalla Germania nazista, il pesce e l'uccello, che il giorno di Pasqua del 1939 davanti ai gradini del Lincoln Memorial di Washigton dove si sono conosciuti e hanno appena ascoltato lo storico concerto di Marion Anderson, decidono di costruire il loro nido sull'acqua, o forse nell'aria, di incrociare le loro razze e i loro colori, la loro religione e le loro storie, e da quelle dei loro tre figli; i due JoJo, Jonah e Joseph (l'io narrante), e Ruth, e le loro diverse tonalit\u00e0 e sfumature, che Delia e David scelgono di crescere e istruire al di l\u00e0 della razza , liberi di poter scegliere, in un futuro migliore, cosa vorranno essere, ma che pagheranno, ciascuno in maniera completamente diversa, la scelta dei genitori di ignorare ogni differenza, perch\u00e9, credono, Non abbiamo paura della differenza. Ci fa pi\u00f9 paura perderci nella somiglianza. La cosa che nessuna razza pu\u00f2 tollerare. Ma il futuro \u00e8 gi\u00e0 presente, e il presente \u00e8 gi\u00e0 passato, Lei ricorda tutto, tutto quello che deve accadere loro. , e la storia degli Stati Uniti scorre avanti e indietro da quel giorno a Washington fino ai nostri giorni, dalle Black Panthers fino alle rivolte razziali per il pestaggio di Rodney King, dalla Seconda Guerra Mondiale all'assassinio di Marthin Luther King, dagli Stati Uniti all'Europa, da Atlanta a Bruxelles, da New York a Parigi, dalla musica rinascimentale alla lirica al jazz al rythm 'n blues al rock 'n roll al rap, incrociando e alternando due piani temporali e due storie che sono parallele e lontane, tangenti e vicine, che si avvitano e si sfidano librandosi ogni volta pi\u00f9 in alto, e si compenetrano noncuranti del tempo e dello spazio fino a ridisegnare le leggi della fisica (ah, quanta incomprensibile e meravigliosa fisica c'\u00e8 che trasporta la vita oltre ogni logica comprensione!), in quella che, solo alla fine, ci si accorger\u00e0 essere stata l'esecuzione perfetta di un incredibile ensemble di solisti. E ora, almeno per un po', solo silenzio, per qualche attimo, un attimo che non saprai definire, perch\u00e9 ormai anche tu avrai capito che il tempo non scorre, ma \u00e8 , e il silenzio sar\u00e0 l'unico accompagnamento musicale possibile per sublimare il tempo di una canzone , un tempo che durer\u00e0 finch\u00e9 ci sar\u00e0 un metronomo a scandire il ritmo della vita, perch\u00e9, ormai ne sei certo, c\u2019\u00e8 un\u2019altra lunghezza d\u2019onda in qualsiasi direzione punti il telescopio , un'onda in cui passato presente e futuro sono e saranno un'unica cosa. Spiraliforme, circolare, avvolgente, eppure lineare, nitido, cristallino. \u00abL'uccello e il pesce possono innamorarsi. Ma dove costruiranno il loro nido?\u00bb [Ho faticato, s\u00ec, moltissimo, perch\u00e9 la musica l'ascolto, ma non la leggo e non conosco tutti ma proprio tutti i termini con cui Powers intesse la sua prosa, cos\u00ec come non conosco affatto la Fisica, quella che fra tutte le discipline mi \u00e8 sempre stata ostile, la pi\u00f9 ostile in assoluto, a tratti mi sono persino annoiata e innervosita, come a un concerto di musica sinfonica al quale assisti del tutto impreparato. Ma, eppure\u2026] http://youtu.be/8Xted0J5upw ...more Phew! I finally completed it! :) 'The Time of Our Singing' tells the story of the two sons of Delia and David Strom. Delia and David might have been your everyday 1950s couple, had Delia not been an aspiring African American singer from Philadelphia's middle class, and David a white Jewish engineer who had just lost his family in the Holocaust. The author has juxtaposed many of the Stroms' milestones with the broader American milestones of the 20th century especially with regards to Black-White re Phew! I finally completed it! :) 'The Time of Our Singing' tells the story of the two sons of Delia and David Strom. Delia and David might have been your everyday 1950s couple, had Delia not been an aspiring African American singer from Philadelphia's middle class, and David a white Jewish engineer who had just lost his family in the Holocaust. The author has juxtaposed many of the Stroms' milestones with the broader American milestones of the 20th century especially with regards to Black-White relations. For example Delia and David meet at the Black opera singer Marian Anderson's groundbreaking concert in Washington, a concert she had to hold outside due to the refusal by the Daughters of Revolution group from letting her performing indoors in their quarters. This is just one historical fact of many that the author lets us, through the Stroms, relive with either shock, anger or shame. Two words: Emmett Till. Delia and David have three children during the turbulent racial era of the 40s to 60s and the book goes on to follow their two Biracial sons in their journey to break into the world of opera, as ambiguous looking 'Black' men. We experience their first friendships, first crushes, first heartbreaks, first achievements and with these we laugh, cry and lament with them. The Strom daughter, Ruth, is kept out of this narrative for quite some time. She is the darkest of all the three children and seems to have a militant persona right from birth. This persona is only exacerbated by the tragic death of Delia (the mother), a death that Ruth believes was caused by racially motivated ignorance on the part of the rescuers. This book will teach you that we all view Race and Love in America through different lenses by the author's obvious use of symbolism. Delia is Black Female America; David is Immigrant White Male America; The three children are respectively 'Passing White', 'Barely White' and 'Could be Black' Biracial America. Their experiences reflect their outward appearance, and vice versa. Some might view this symbolism as simplistic and not realistic, but geez, how more complicated can this novel get? Writing it and researching for it (including researching about latent American mindsets) must have been extremely time consuming for Richard Powers (who is not Black). It's a great effort on the author's part to let every character give their subjective view on race. The author also inserted his obvious love for Physics and Music into the proceedings. Talk about 'melting pot'! For this immensely difficult-looking feat alone, I give this book and author 5 stars. Effort and execution does not get better than this. I had an emotional reading experience even though it was long. I felt drained at the end of it all, not by the book but by the very topic of 'Race'. However I have a feeling this was one of the author's intentions. --- Melissa Kyeyune (author of lighthearted multicultural romance) http://www.amazon.com/Miguel-Grace-Me... ...more OK, this is undoubtedly a great work of art, a book that deserves the superlatives that have been scattered here abundantly on this site, because this is a novel with a lot of meat on the bone. First of all it is a beautiful, at times even quite touching family saga (after 600 pages the Strom family members have become rather good acquaintances). This saga is handsomely fit into a specific time frame (the US between 1939 and 1993) and so it is also a Great American Novel (a little reminiscent of OK, this is undoubtedly a great work of art, a book that deserves the superlatives that have been scattered here abundantly on this site, because this is a novel with a lot of meat on the bone. First of all it is a beautiful, at times even quite touching family saga (after 600 pages the Strom family members have become rather good acquaintances). This saga is handsomely fit into a specific time frame (the US between 1939 and 1993) and so it is also a Great American Novel (a little reminiscent of \u2018American Pastoral' by Philip Roth, also with a girl who goes radical). It deals particularly with racial issues, from an African-American and mixt colored position; it even seems to be the best African-American novel since \u2018Invisible Man\u2019 by Ralph Ellison, and surprisingly written by a white man! And there is even a scientific-philosophical line in the story, with the theme of the relativity of time (yesterday is today, but also tomorrow, and tomorrow was allready there yesterday; which is also reflected in the constant back and forth jumping of the story). And then there's the music: music is omnipresent, even in the least insignificant characters in this story, because music seems to be the very instrument to go beyond time, and in this story particarly to go beyond race or other dividing line, offering the ultimate freedom; for the laymen among us (such as I) Power is rather demanding because he goes very far into the technicality of the singing and the music and you also need some notion of music history; but as a connecting element, it works and for true music lovers this book is an extravagant long and intense enjoyment. Powers weaves all these elements into a fascinating and ingenious composed story, that keeps the attention going almost until the end (despite the sometimes very condensed writing style), with regular surprising turns and without being pedantic. I really liked his approach to this story: it is not an indictment for or against people with a particular color, or for or against the radical choices people sometimes make; on the contrary, almost all the characters are drawn so subtle that you can not help but sympathize with their actions and opinions. Even the hyper-egocentric Jonah who draws so much attention to him self, and apparently seems the most successful of the Strom family, you can not but feel sympathy with him, because in the end he turns out to be the most tragic figure of this novel. There's so much more to praise, yet I can not quite go for the full five stars. Especially towards the end of the novel, the story lines are becoming a bit artificial, some new characters (eg, cousin Delia) don\u2019t sound quite credible, and the talkative level gets slightly too high. It seems like it took Powers some effort to lay down his story. Also, the constant reference to \"the relativity of time\" occasionally got on my nerves. For most of the novel this time-game gives a rich and nice flavor to the storyline, but the magic-realistic level of the pseudo-philosophizing got a bit too high in the end. But no worries: this really is a great novel and I recommend it enthousiastically! I\u2019m placing the next novels of Powers on my to read list. ...more Important Service Announcement: I read the first 100 or something pags of this yesterday and decided not to continue. *does not panic* *breathes* Yes, I can start a book and not finish it! It hasn't happened very often, in fact, I can't remember that it ever happened, but I'm convinced I can do it. It also helps that this is my mothers book, so I can give it back to her and not be tempted. Why don't I finish it? Well, it's a very very long book. And in the first 100 pages, the important ones where al Important Service Announcement: I read the first 100 or something pags of this yesterday and decided not to continue. *does not panic* *breathes* Yes, I can start a book and not finish it! It hasn't happened very often, in fact, I can't remember that it ever happened, but I'm convinced I can do it. It also helps that this is my mothers book, so I can give it back to her and not be tempted. Why don't I finish it? Well, it's a very very long book. And in the first 100 pages, the important ones where all the characters (as far as I know it's all of them, there are probably more later) are introduced, I didn't relate to anything. I didn't particularly like the family of Jonah and his brother, I wasn't at all interested in them or their life, and I really didn't care much what happened to them later. Or before, Or at all. So, the decision was: should I continue to read 600 more pages about a family I'm not in the least bit interested in, or should I move on to one of the other 99,9 books that are lying here on my shelves, waiting to be read. And then it came to me: no matter how much time I spent reading, I will never be able to read all the books that are and have and will be written. It's simply not possible. I will not even be able to read all the books I would LIKE to read. I knew that, of course, somewhere in the back of my mind, but it's a painful admission and I rather not think about it. Still, as painful as it is, it is true. So the wise decision is to spent my time reading the books I want to read, good or bad. \"Der Klang der Zeit\" (The Time of Our Singing) is not one of them. Instead, I have moved on to Nadine Gordimer. //End of Important Service Announcement *still tries not to panic* ...more Reasons you might not want to read this book: (1) It's very long - 636 dense pages. (2) It skips back and forth through time. I didn't find it at all hard to follow, but some readers object to the technique. By purest chance, I read this right after finishing _The Butler_. Both books look at the second half (or a bit more) of the 20th century from the POV of an American black family. All I knew about _Singing_ was that a friend who shares my taste in books liked it very much. _Singing is vastly Reasons you might not want to read this book: (1) It's very long - 636 dense pages. (2) It skips back and forth through time. I didn't find it at all hard to follow, but some readers object to the technique. By purest chance, I read this right after finishing _The Butler_. Both books look at the second half (or a bit more) of the 20th century from the POV of an American black family. All I knew about _Singing_ was that a friend who shares my taste in books liked it very much. _Singing is vastly deeper, more subtle and nuanced than _The Butler_. The father of the family in _Singing_ is a German physicist and professor at Columbia as well as a lover and amateur player of classical music. The mother is a black woman who aspires to a career as a classical singer. At the historic 1939 Marian Anderson concert on the mall, Professor Strom hears Miss Daley softly singing along with Miss Anderson, and their cooperation in helping a lost boy find his brother leads to a relationship she considers impossible but can't resist. They marry in spite of her family's opposition, and have three children: Jonah, Joseph, and Ruth, who learn to read music before words. The piano and the singing form the family's recreation and their bonds. Einstein with his violin and several physicists who work on the Manhattan project attend the family's musical evenings. Jonah has an amazing voice, and Joseph usually accompanies him on the piano. Joseph narrates the book, which follows the careers of all members of the family and others close to them. The slurs and rejections because of their color are explored in sensitive detail, with the events of the Civil Rights Era, the assassinations of the 1960s, and other events significant to black Americans examined from the POV of each of the main characters. Ruth joins the Black Panthers. The writing style is extraordinarily beautiful. I was enchanted before I was a dozen pages in. There were occasional passages further on that seemed a bit too wordy, but I was never tempted to abandon the book. Knowledge of classical music will enhance the reader's pleasure, but is by no means necessary to enjoy this book. IMO it's destined to be a classic. ...more Musical Immersion I have participated in classical music as an amateur my entire life, and worked professionally in the field for four decades; they are different experiences. Up to now, the novel that most completely captured both the love-affair of the amateur and the exacting discipline of the performer has been An Equal Music by Vikram Seth, set in the world of chamber music. But this 2003 novel by Richard Powers eclipses even that beacon. Beginning with the astounding competition win by a Musical Immersion I have participated in classical music as an amateur my entire life, and worked professionally in the field for four decades; they are different experiences. Up to now, the novel that most completely captured both the love-affair of the amateur and the exacting discipline of the performer has been An Equal Music by Vikram Seth, set in the world of chamber music. But this 2003 novel by Richard Powers eclipses even that beacon. Beginning with the astounding competition win by a young American singer, Jonah Strom, in 1961, and then using the next 200 pages to trace the path that led him there, this is a book so totally immersed in music that the words themselves become a musical instrument, and the descriptions of formal concerts or jamming around the piano at home more exciting than the sex or action scenes of most other writers. So totally does Powers understand the life of an aspiring vocalist and the special world of a music conservatory (my own habitat for forty years), that it comes as a shock when he finally makes an error almost 400 pages in (having his hero, a tenor, come under consideration for a role in a real production that was eventually taken by Simon Estes, a bass-baritone). But any flaws are tiny; this is a masterpiece. Jonah is accompanied in his recitals by his brother Joey, who narrates the book. The strength of this is that Jonah's talent is described, not from the point of view of his audience or fans, but through the fear and excitement of somebody trying to ski down the musical mountain beside him, responding to his impulsive turns, sharing the adrenaline of his impossible descent. The downside, though not apparent until much later, is that when Jonah no longer has the spotlight and Joey emerges as the protagonist of his own book, some of the light is lost\u2014but we have seen this often enough before: think The Great Gatsby or All the King's Men . Though only Jonah has the star temperament, he and Joey are both musical prodigies, formed from parlor games in which parents and children alike would combine tunes from Lassus to Loesser in a quodlibet of improvised counterpoint. When the book ends with similar jam session on a much larger scale in an inner-city school in Oakland, California\u2014another magnificent set piece\u2014the musical homecoming is poignant. For this is also a book about race. Jonah and Joey's parents met through one of those iconic moments where music and race intersect, at the celebrated concert by black mezzo-soprano Marian Anderson on the Mall in Washington in 1939. David is a recent Jewish refugee, a theoretical physicist taken onto the faculty at Columbia, where he would become peripherally involved in the Manhattan Project. Delia is the daughter of a black Philadelphia physician, a graduate of Howard University, and an aspiring singer in her own right. I thought I knew about the sorry racial history of this country, but Powers brings it home with the force of revelation how intense the bigotry was in the middle decades of the century, and how foolhardy such a marriage would have been. The Stroms' idealized wish to raise their children beyond color only presented each of them with an ambiguity that they would take the rest of their lives to work out: Jonah, who could almost pass for white; Joey, who struggles to pass for black; and their younger sister Ruth, who takes the most radical steps of all. One of the things I most admire about Powers is his ability to bring major events close into the wings without them ever taking over the stage, and to forge a chain of events that serve as defining moments for the other America: the Anderson concert, Hiroshima, Watts, and the two great marches on Washington. It is an astounding book for a white writer even to attempt, let alone bring off with such authenticity. Perhaps Powers is over-ambitious and tries to include too much. His writing, though brilliant throughout, is often too dense for easy reading, too dependent on the special jargon of music or mathematics. Not all his attempts to work through his racial theme in musical terms pay off. But when he manages to pull it all together, as he does remarkably often, he is simply superb. So let me end with his description of the congregation at the funeral of the boys' mother: How many gradations did anyone see? This polytonal, polychordal piece played for a stone-deaf audience who heard not tonic and dominant, and were pretty shaky even picking out those two. But all the pitches in the chromatic scale had turned out for my mother, and many of the microtones between. ...more Bird and fish can fall in love. But where will they build their nest? Where to start when reviewing this book? You can read the book description to get an idea of what it is about: 3 children of mixed race parents in America during the racial tensions of the 1950s and onwards. But it wouldn\u2019t be Richard Powers if that was all there was to it. Powers tells us the stories of these children growing up, but one parent is a singer and one is physicist. This gives Powers opportunity to play to his stren Bird and fish can fall in love. But where will they build their nest? Where to start when reviewing this book? You can read the book description to get an idea of what it is about: 3 children of mixed race parents in America during the racial tensions of the 1950s and onwards. But it wouldn\u2019t be Richard Powers if that was all there was to it. Powers tells us the stories of these children growing up, but one parent is a singer and one is physicist. This gives Powers opportunity to play to his strengths, because no one can write about music and science like Powers can. The main science in this book is General Relativity and Powers plays a lot with time. The chapters of the book jump around in time from the children\u2019s births during the Second World War through to Million Man March in 1995 in Washington, D.C. (plus a short jump back to the 1800s for a bit of family history). On the way we cover many of the key events in America related to racial segregation and the battle to end it, the atomic bombs dropped on Japan, Vietnam and discussions of relativity. And somehow, all these things are related. This is what Powers excels at. He sees (invents? discovers?) connections and writes about them. I loved, for example, that he made several mentions of the relativity conundrum about people travelling away at close to the speed of light and having aged differently when they get back together and then told us the story of two brothers who grew apart and then discovered that their musical tastes had travelled in opposite directions in time when they got back together. Our narrator, Joseph, the middle child of the three, even says \u201c He was travelling out beyond my reach, at a speed that collapsed all measure \u201d and Jonah, the older brother sings \u201cTime Stands Still\u201d. Time is jumbled in this book, but it isn\u2019t confusing to read. I also loved the story of race in America. This was a real education for me. I have heard of many of the events Powers refers to, but this book put them into an order and a context for me whilst asking some serious questions about race relations that are probably still relevant today. At one point the patriarch of the family says \u201c I\u2019ve always wondered what America might have been had the one-drop rule worked the other way \u201d. I don\u2019t know if that\u2019s an original idea (I doubt it), but, especially in the context of this book, it is a thought-provoking one. Powers has written 11 novels and I\u2019ve now read 10 of them. I think this is my favourite. However, I think I\u2019ve thought that about nearly every one as I have finished it, so I should probably give it a few days before making that definite! For anyone interested, this is an excellent review of this book that also puts all Powers\u2019 other books (except those published after this one) into context. It\u2019s an excellent overview of Powers\u2019 work, concentrating on this wonderful novel: Powers Review ...more More to say on this later after some more thought, hopefully. For now: it's totally consumed me. I read the last 100 pages or so until 3 in the morning despite being dead tired. Having just read Powers's The Echo Maker, I'd say this one seems to me more whole and absorbed me more fully, or the other way around. Like a vast timeless poem, it has me not knowing where to begin putting to words what it has done so well in its themes of race, music, and time. I do feel like it achieved the timelessne More to say on this later after some more thought, hopefully. For now: it's totally consumed me. I read the last 100 pages or so until 3 in the morning despite being dead tired. Having just read Powers's The Echo Maker, I'd say this one seems to me more whole and absorbed me more fully, or the other way around. Like a vast timeless poem, it has me not knowing where to begin putting to words what it has done so well in its themes of race, music, and time. I do feel like it achieved the timelessness that its content delivers; that is, I don't feel like I read the book linearly even though I know I began at page 1 and ended with page 631. It's rather a thing existing unto itself that moves in all directions, each moment feeding into the others. ...more Prachtig boek! Geweldig interessant en informatief ook. Wat een mooie analyses en subtiele beschrijvingen. 4 sterren en geen 5 omdat het soms te veel is van alles, te wijdlopig en meer van hetzelfde. Maar ik ben sprakeloos van het vertelde verhaal. Was f\u00fcr ein geschriebenes Epos. Mir f\u00e4llt kaum vergleichbares ein, in dem Worte wie Musik komponiert werden und in ihrer Einmaligkeit und Komplexit\u00e4t eine Sprache entfalten, die seinesgleichen sucht. Es gelingt Richard Powers in seinem Werk den Bogen von 1939 bis in die 80er Jahre zu spannen und in dessen Mittelpunkt eine Familie zu stellen, deren Lebensgrundlage immer wieder die Frage zu beantworten sucht: 'Der Fisch und der Vogel k\u00f6nnen sich verlieben. Doch wo bauen sie ihr Nest?' Die Geschicht Was f\u00fcr ein geschriebenes Epos. Mir f\u00e4llt kaum vergleichbares ein, in dem Worte wie Musik komponiert werden und in ihrer Einmaligkeit und Komplexit\u00e4t eine Sprache entfalten, die seinesgleichen sucht. Es gelingt Richard Powers in seinem Werk den Bogen von 1939 bis in die 80er Jahre zu spannen und in dessen Mittelpunkt eine Familie zu stellen, deren Lebensgrundlage immer wieder die Frage zu beantworten sucht: 'Der Fisch und der Vogel k\u00f6nnen sich verlieben. Doch wo bauen sie ihr Nest?' Die Geschichte beginnt, dass sich eine schwarze Frau und ein wei\u00dfer Mann verlieben und sich gegen alle Konventionen und dem Denken der herrschenden Zeit zusammenzutun um eine Familie zu gr\u00fcnden. Beinahe jeder Atemzug in ihrem zuhause atmet Musik und es findet sich in den abendlichen Stunden am Klavier eine neue Art von musikalischem Zitateraten, Vermischung alter und neuer Musik statt. Deliah ist eine \u00e4u\u00dferst talentierte S\u00e4ngerin, die jedoch zu Gunsten ihrer Kinder daheim bleibt und diese auch zun\u00e4chst daheim unterrichtet. Jonah und Joseph, ihre beiden \u00e4lteren S\u00f6hne, werden von ihr in einem Atemzug liebevoll JoJo genannt. Vor allem der \u00e4ltere zeigt bereits in fr\u00fchesten Jahren eine begnadete Stimme und ein wahrhaft au\u00dfergew\u00f6hnliches Talent. Ihr Mann David Strom ist ein deutscher, j\u00fcdischer Physiker, der vor den Nazis geflohen ist und sich geradezu im Ph\u00e4nomen der Zeit verliert, das er zu erforschen sucht. Durch seine Offenheit und Bereitschaft alles ungew\u00f6hnliche als normal anzusehen, kann er viele der Ansichten aus Deliahs Familie nicht nachvollziehen. Ihre Ehe stellt zur damaligen Zeit einen Verrat am Denken von Weissen wie auch Schwarzen statt. Ihr Versuch eine neue Welt im Kleinen zu schaffen kann nicht gelingen. Deliah und ihr Mann David entscheiden sich schweren Herzens beide S\u00f6hne auf eine Musikschule zu schicken um ihnen die Gelegenheit zu geben, ihr Talent unter professioneller Anleitung zu entfalten. Diese Schule katapultiert die zwei Jungs in eine andere Welt. Zwar spielt ihre Hautfarbe hier nicht die Hauptrolle, sondern ihr musikalischen K\u00f6nnen, doch k\u00f6nnen sie sie auch nicht ablegen. Und so entfaltet sich Seite f\u00fcr Seite dieses Buches die Geschichte von Kindern, die weder der einen noch der anderen Rasse angeh\u00f6ren und versuchen, dieser Definition durch ihr besonderes musikalisches Talent zu entgehen. Ihr Schwester Ruth ist diejenige, die unter dem fr\u00fchen Unfalltod der Mutter am meisten zu leiden hat und sich auch als erste von ihrer Familie abwendet um sich im Kampf der Schwarzen gegen die Rassentrennung engagiert. Die Familie droht auseinander zu brechen und jedes der Kinder versucht auf seine Weise damit fertig zu werden. Die Reise auf die uns der Autor mitnimmt, springt in Zeitspr\u00fcngen von der Geschichte der Eltern zu der der Kinder. Doch niemals irritierend und immer einen Bogen schlagend um pers\u00f6nliche wie geschichtliche Ereignisse miteinander zu verweben. Es ist ein Genuss, sich in diesen kunstvoll gearbeiteten S\u00e4tzen zu verlieren. In diese F\u00fclle von W\u00f6rtern einzutauchen und den beschriebenen Klang wie von Engelszungen entstehen zu h\u00f6ren. Nicht umsonst wurde Richard Powers bereits mit renommierten Preisen \u00fcberh\u00e4uft. ...more This book was just so good. Moving, fascinating, complex...manages to weave a compelling family story together with an eerily accurate picture of 20th century U.S. history and race relations. I found myself wishing that this book had been written just after Obama's election, so that Inauguration Day could factored into the framing device of huge, defining moments in Washington (would have preferred that to the Million Man March, which closes the novel). The characters felt real enough that I wan This book was just so good. Moving, fascinating, complex...manages to weave a compelling family story together with an eerily accurate picture of 20th century U.S. history and race relations. I found myself wishing that this book had been written just after Obama's election, so that Inauguration Day could factored into the framing device of huge, defining moments in Washington (would have preferred that to the Million Man March, which closes the novel). The characters felt real enough that I wanted to know how they would have reacted to a black president, and to the crazy reactionary fervor that followed. This was such an intelligent look at how race, class, and culture intersects for one mixed-race family. I really related to the protagonist, Joseph. I was fortunate enough to be born 25 years later - late enough to be shocked anew by the recounting of prejudice. But Joseph's sense of belonging to elite culture and yet always being a bit of an outsider, his quest for an authentic identity (which leads him to community work in Oakland!), resonated with me. Plus, this book is kind of soft porn for music lovers. I know just enough about music to sort of follow the obscure references, and to realize how little I really know about music. There aren't too many novels that will appeal equally to sociologists, historians, musicologists, and people who just like a well-done family saga. I guess every once in a while the prose is a little self-indulgent, and at 600+ pages there could have been some editing. Minor quibble, though. For once my co-workers praise in recommending this book was not just hype. ...more I've had this book for a good few years now and I've never before been able to get into it. I've picked it up, read a few pages, put it down again and found something else. And now I wish I'd stayed with it, now I wish I'd read it years ago so I could have read it again and again by now, because...what a book. What a book. On a purely surface level it's about two mixed-race brothers born in the late 1940s, children to a German Jewish father and a black mother. But it's so much more than that. It' I've had this book for a good few years now and I've never before been able to get into it. I've picked it up, read a few pages, put it down again and found something else. And now I wish I'd stayed with it, now I wish I'd read it years ago so I could have read it again and again by now, because...what a book. What a book. On a purely surface level it's about two mixed-race brothers born in the late 1940s, children to a German Jewish father and a black mother. But it's so much more than that. It's about identity and birthright, about time and music, racism and relativity and what it means to be human. It's been described as 'one of the greatest American novels ever written' and I couldn't agree more. It's incredible. The language alone would make it all worthwhile - this man has a gift with words and imagery that rivals Pat Conroy, and the latter is one of my favourite authors. And it's packed full of scientific metaphors, references to art and history and music, many of which I have to confess went sailing over my head but didn't lessen my enjoyment one iota. It's not an undemanding read but oh, it's worth it. Every page is a treasure. I was only sorry to come to the end of it, and I know it's a book I'll return to. ...more The Time of Our Singing is a wonderful novel full of heartbreak, joy, triumph, defeat, rage, injustice, and life. The novel spans the period from just before WWII until the late 1990's. Delia is the spoke in the wheel of the novel. She is a young African-American woman, gifted with a beautiful voice, who dreams of singing like Marian Anderson. When she goes to Washington to hear Ms. Anderson sing on the Mall, she meets David Strom. He is white, Jewish, and refugee from Hitler's Germany. They fal The Time of Our Singing is a wonderful novel full of heartbreak, joy, triumph, defeat, rage, injustice, and life. The novel spans the period from just before WWII until the late 1990's. Delia is the spoke in the wheel of the novel. She is a young African-American woman, gifted with a beautiful voice, who dreams of singing like Marian Anderson. When she goes to Washington to hear Ms. Anderson sing on the Mall, she meets David Strom. He is white, Jewish, and refugee from Hitler's Germany. They fall in love drawn together by their love of music. David is a physicist. They have three children Jonah, Joseph, and Ruth. The novel moves back and forth in time as their children grow up and as America begins to face it racist past and present. Music is a common thread in the novel, and all three children have musical gifts but all choose different paths. The Time of Our Singing is a masterpiece that will stand the test of time and could be read again and again. ...more I thought I would never finish this book. It has over 600 pages but beyond that it is not a \"fast read.\" The storyline and ideas in the book are interesting, but the book moves along slowly, and each sentence seems over written. A good portion of the book is devoted to music terms and references, but with no reference for the layperson. With this kind of writing, the author assumes it's readers know and can understand a great deal, yet there are several instances where foreshadowing, or an event I thought I would never finish this book. It has over 600 pages but beyond that it is not a \"fast read.\" The storyline and ideas in the book are interesting, but the book moves along slowly, and each sentence seems over written. A good portion of the book is devoted to music terms and references, but with no reference for the layperson. With this kind of writing, the author assumes it's readers know and can understand a great deal, yet there are several instances where foreshadowing, or an event falls into place but instead of allowing the reader to comprehend this on their own, it is again over written to a point of complete obviousness. What I did enjoy about this book is it's idea of time and the correlation of how the book is written. I also enjoyed the sequencing of music, and of race relations throughout American history... it was enough for me to keep turning the pages. ...more I had a mixed reaction to this book. It engaged me and I loved the use of music in the story and, as a singer, the descriptions of singing and music. But there were definitely sections where I thought the author was forcing his characters in a particular direction, rather than allowing them to run the story. The discussions of time and the intercutting of different time periods within the story was not entirely successful. In the end, it felt like a white person's book about race. I'd be curious I had a mixed reaction to this book. It engaged me and I loved the use of music in the story and, as a singer, the descriptions of singing and music. But there were definitely sections where I thought the author was forcing his characters in a particular direction, rather than allowing them to run the story. The discussions of time and the intercutting of different time periods within the story was not entirely successful. In the end, it felt like a white person's book about race. I'd be curious to read comments by African-Americans about the book. ...more I could listen to this man sing his lyrics all day long. He is a tad verbose at times but it is a minor transgression. This book sat on my shelf for years which now, in retrospect, seems like a sin. It is a powerful, powerful book. Read it. Listen to his words. Absorb them. Savor them. The themes of the book are relevant and worthy of contemplation long after the book is set aside, especially given the tragic racial conflicts of late. I loved his aspirational message of living \"beyond race.\" Even though it took me forever to finish this book it deserves 5 stars for originality, exquisite writing, and major truths about American racism. It was so hard for me to read very much at a time due to the abundance of information on every topic the author chose to illuminate. But by the end it was worth slugging through for the wisdom. Not soon to be forgotten... Richard Powers Nobel Prize. Attention chief-work. A powerful novel which speaks about exile after the Nazism, racism, the walk of Martin Luther King, authentic interpretation of baroque music\u2026 It is moving, powerful, a Master book splendid, extraordinary, brilliant Encore Very ambitious and often important and interesting, but just as often tedious. It's about 300 pages too long, but ultimately I'm glad I read it. The last few pages were my favorite; they are the reward for actually finishing. \"White? You raising them white?\" \"Don't be silly. We're trying to raise them... beyond race.\" The only stable and survivable world. \"'Beyond' means white. Only people who can afford 'beyond'.\" Richard Powers, The Time of Our Singing (London: Vintage, 2004), 487. a complex beautiful story - but WAY TOO LONG. I made it all the way through and loved how the threads all wove together at the end, but I really felt like the author tried too hard. Il tempo resta, noi scorriamo Powers \u00e8 geniale. La molteplicit\u00e0 dei temi trattati, la raffinatezza della scrittura, la cultura e la ricchezza intellettuale di Powers, le invenzioni narrative rendono questo libro una scoperta ad ogni pagina. E direi anche un capolavoro, uno dei migliori libri che ho letto in assoluto. Le discriminazioni razziali tra bianchi e neri si mescolano alla musica, alla fisica quantistica, alla teoria della relativit\u00e0, alle persecuzioni contro gli ebrei per arrivare alla con Il tempo resta, noi scorriamo Powers \u00e8 geniale. La molteplicit\u00e0 dei temi trattati, la raffinatezza della scrittura, la cultura e la ricchezza intellettuale di Powers, le invenzioni narrative rendono questo libro una scoperta ad ogni pagina. E direi anche un capolavoro, uno dei migliori libri che ho letto in assoluto. Le discriminazioni razziali tra bianchi e neri si mescolano alla musica, alla fisica quantistica, alla teoria della relativit\u00e0, alle persecuzioni contro gli ebrei per arrivare alla constatazione che le razze difficilmente possono mescolarsi. E noi l\u00ec a stupirci, a seguire i tanti rivoli dei discorsi, a imparare, a cercare di capire le ragioni di certi accostamenti, a gioire e a soffrire con i protagonisti. Razza, musica e tempo. Il libro ragiona sul legame esistente tra queste tre cose. Facile capire che musica e tempo siano legati tra loro; per il ritmo della musica stessa, ma anche la musica come inviluppo di tutta l'opera dei compositori che ci hanno preceduto nel tempo. Le razze invece secoli fa erano molte e ben differenziate; ma col procedere del tempo (allo stesso modo in cui avviene nella musica, dove gli accordi armonici hanno pian piano fatto spazio alla politonalit\u00e0/atonalit\u00e0 e ai mezzi toni) si sono progressivamente mescolate tendendo lentamente verso un futuro in cui saremo tutti scuri di pelle e con gli occhi scuri. Ma come il pubblico fatica ad ascoltare musica che non abbia i tipici (e vetusti e rilassanti) accordi di tonica e dominante, allo stesso modo il mescolamento della razza non \u00e8 affatto accettato dalla gente. \" Il pesce e l'uccello possono innamorarsi, ma l'unico loro nido sar\u00e0 la tomba \" Tre aspetti, la musica, la razza e il tempo che sono analizzati e sviscerati a fondo nel libro (ma quanto \u00e8 colto questo Powers? E' strabiliante!). Ed \u00e8 meraviglioso arrivare in fondo e assistere alla chiusura del cerchio, ossia che queste tre direttive, cos\u00ec stranamente accostate, convergono in un finale romantico e meraviglioso. La lettura sar\u00e0 sempre entusiasmante, fin quando ci saranno libri come questo. Potente, denso, impegnativo ma illuminante, complesso ma scorrevole, affascinante. Bellissimo. ...more This book is already pretty good, and I imagine it would have been even better if I wasn't such an ignoramus when it comes to vocal music. Every part (and there are a lot) that was about various pieces, composers, styles, and performances went completely over my head. I looked up a fair number of the pieces mentioned, which was an enjoyable task, but come on, I'm tone deaf, that only went so far. I still found this to be a very intriguing, thoughtful, interesting read. It's a rambling, non-chrono This book is already pretty good, and I imagine it would have been even better if I wasn't such an ignoramus when it comes to vocal music. Every part (and there are a lot) that was about various pieces, composers, styles, and performances went completely over my head. I looked up a fair number of the pieces mentioned, which was an enjoyable task, but come on, I'm tone deaf, that only went so far. I still found this to be a very intriguing, thoughtful, interesting read. It's a rambling, non-chronological family story, a Jewish \u00e9migr\u00e9 mathematician and a classically-trained African American vocalist raise three children. The bulk of the book looks at the experiences of the three - all music prodigies; the oldest becomes a vocal phenom, the youngest turns to social activism, and the middle child narrates this story. In a quick one sentence summary, it's about issues of belonging and not belonging based on race in the United States. I loved how ideas of math and science were threaded through the book - it sounds like that should be clunky, but it's really handled so well that it feels very natural to the world of the story. The hook at the end, where it all comes around together, had me saying (to myself) \"Oh! Oh! OH!\" on the subway during the morning commute. (To be honest, the book completely had me on this point ... and then kept on explaining it a little more, so it could have even ended a few pages sooner, IMHO.) There are a very aspects where I'm not really sure I was buying what was going on. The narrator, and most everyone else, seems very concerned about the happiness of the oldest brother ... but I never felt 100% certain what all the concern was about. The brother is an odd bird, but didn't seem to be needing anything in particular by way of attention or intervention. A lot of this is a novel about inaction -- there were plenty of times when I was thinking \"but why don't you DO something about it?\" but ultimately that didn't take away from the excellent writing and crafting of this book. ...more<---C>Richard Powers</---C>", "Title": "The Time of Our Singing"},
