{"Comments": "I hardly know where to begin bashing this book. Do I start with the 9-year-old boy and his 12-year-old sister,<---M> who read about 6 and 8</---M>, respectively? The imperial measurements (<---B>miles, feet</---B>) despite the German setting? The German boy, raised in Berlin, who thinks that Der F\u00fchrer is \"The Fury\" and Auschwitz is \"Out-With,\" despite being corrected several times and seeing it written down ? The other English-language idioms and mis-hearings, despite our being told that he speaks only German? And that h I hardly know where to begin bashing this book. Do I start with the 9-year-old boy and his 12-year-old sister, who read about 6 and 8, respectively? The imperial measurements (miles, feet) despite the German setting? The German boy, raised in Berlin, who thinks that Der F\u00fchrer is \"The Fury\" and Auschwitz is \"Out-With,\" despite being corrected several times and seeing it written down ? The other English-language idioms and mis-hearings, despite our being told that he speaks only German? And that he believes that \"Heil Hitler!\" is a fancy word for hello, because he understands neither \"Heil\" nor \"Hitler\"? So maybe these are fussy issues, and I shouldn't trash the book on these minor linguistic flaws. Instead, I can start with the plot holes big enough to drive a truck through: that <---C>Bruno</---C>, whose father is a high-ranking official in \"The Fury\"'s regime, doesn't know what a Jew is, or that he's living next door to a concentration camp. Or that the people wearing the \"striped pajamas\" are being killed, and THAT's why they don't get up after the soldiers stand close to them and there are sounds \"like gunshots.\" Or that there's a section of fence that is (a) unpatrolled and (b) can be lifted from the ground high enough to pass food and, eventually, a small boy through, AND that nobody would try to get OUT through this hole. Or that Bruno's friend Shmuel, a frail 9-year-old boy, would survive over a year in a Nazi camp. Or even the author's refusal to ever use the word \"Auschwitz,\" in an effort to \"make this book about any camp, to add a universality to Bruno's experience.\" That last is from an interview with the author that appears at the end of the audio version. I can't speak to most of what he said, because it was a lot of \"here are all the places that are hyping my book,\" but the worst part of it, to me, was where he was addressing criticisms: \"there are people who complain that Bruno is too innocent, too naive, and they are trivializing the message of this book.<---F>\" Um, no</---F>. I'm not trivializing the message; I'm objecting to his trivializing of the Holocaust. I find his treatment of the Holocaust to be superficial, misleading, and even offensive. As an audio recording, I'm pretty neutral. The narrator did the best he could with the material and there was some differentiation between the characters' voices, but the music that was added... some chapters ended with appropriately-somber music. Other chapters had no music at all. Sometimes the music appeared in the middle of a chapter. Two other incidental notes: first, normally you can't say anything negative about a Holocaust-themed book without being an asshole, because the books are so tied in with the Holocaust itself. In this case, though, I feel like, due to the fictionalizing of it, the book is far enough removed from Auschwitz that it's okay to be negative about the book without being insensitive about the Holocaust. Second, this doesn't land on my \"run away! Save yourself!\" shelf, because that's more for books that are comically bad--books that I can bash with glee and mock with abandon. I can't find anything funny about what makes this book so bad; it's just plain offensive and shallow. ...more As Michael Kors once sighed to a clueless designer on Project Runway : Where do I start? Let's open with some descriptive words that sum up this book, and I will then go on to explain them in further detail: Patronizing. Insipid. Smarmy. Just plain bad . Patronizing: I believe that to write good children's literature, you have to think that children are intelligent, capable human beings who are worth writing for - like Stephen King, who probably thinks kids are smarter than adults. The author of T As Michael Kors once sighed to a clueless designer on Project Runway : Where do I start? Let's open with some descriptive words that sum up this book, and I will then go on to explain them in further detail: Patronizing. Insipid. Smarmy. Just plain bad . Patronizing: I believe that to write good children's literature, you have to think that children are intelligent, capable human beings who are worth writing for - like Stephen King, who probably thinks kids are smarter than adults. The author of <+++>The Boy in the Striped Pajamas</+++> , on the other hand, clearly thinks that children are idiots. The main character, Bruno, is supposed to be nine years old, but compared to him Danny Torrance of The Shining (who was six) looks like a Mensa member. There's childlike naivety, and then there's Bruno, who is so stunningly unobservant and unperceptive that I actually started to wonder if he was supposed to be mentally deficient somehow. And he's not the only child who receives Boyne's withering scorn and condescension. Take this scene between Bruno and his sister Gretel, when they've just moved to their house at \"Out-With\" (as Bruno insists on calling it, despite being corrected many times and seeing the name written down ) and are wondering how long they're going to stay there. Bruno's father, a commandant in charge of the camp, has told the kids that they'll be there \"for the foreseeable future\" and Bruno doesn't know what that means. \"'It means weeks from now,' Gretel said with an intelligent nod of her head. 'Perhaps as long as three.'\" Gretel is twelve years old, by the way. TWELVE. See what I meant about Boyne thinking kids are morons? Insipid And Smarmy: this book was not meant for kids to read. It's meant for adults who know about the Holocaust already, so they can read it and sigh over the precious innocent widdle children's adorable misunderstanding of the horrible events surrounding them and how they still remain innocent and uuuuuuggggggghhhhh. There's a scene towards the end, where Bruno puts on a pair of the \"striped pajamas\" so he can visit his friend on the other side of the fence. Bruno has had lice, so his head is shaved. When he puts on the pajamas, the Jewish boy observes him and the narration commits the following Hallmark-worthy atrocity: \"If it wasn't for the fact that Bruno was nowhere near as skinny as the boys on his side of the fence, and not quite so pale either, it would have been difficult to tell them apart. It was almost (Shmuel thought) as if they were all exactly the same really.\" YES JOHN BOYNE I SEE WHAT YOU DID THERE. Just Plain Bad: This book is, technically, historic fiction, but I'm not putting it on my history shelf, because there is nothing historical in this book. Bruno is supposed to have grown up in Nazi Germany, the son of a high ranking SS officer, but based on his knowledge of everything, he's spent his entire nine years sitting inside with his eyes shut humming loudly while covering his ears. Okay, I get that he wouldn't know about the concentration camps - hardly anyone did at that point. But there are other things: Bruno consistently (and adorably!) mispronounces the Fuhrer as \"the Fury\" (I SEE WHAT YOU DID THERE JOHN BOYNE), and doesn't recognize the following key words and phrases: Jews, Fatherland, Heil Hitler . What. The fuck. Okay, so maybe this kid's too young to be in Hitler Youth (his sister isn't though, but for some reason she's not in it either), but come on - he thinks \"Heil Hitler\" is just a polite way to end a conversation. A nine-year-old boy growing up in a military household in Nazi Germany doesn't know what Heil Hitler means. All of this comes back to my original thesis: <---A>John Boyne</---A> thinks that children are idiots. Look, Boyne: just because you don't understand anything (history, children, good writing) doesn't mean the rest of us are quite so useless. Go cash your checks for that awful movie adaptation they did of this book and never try to make a statement about anything ever again, please. Read for: Social Justice in Young Adult Literature ...more \"<+++>The Boy in the Striped Pajamas</+++>\" would easily top my list of \"Worst Books about the Holocaust.\" I am writing as one who was there -- I was once myself a boy in striped pajamas and am a survivor of six German concentration camps. This book is so ignorant of historical facts about concentration camps that it kicks the history of the Holocaust right in the teeth. John Boyne's premise is that the nine-year old son of the commandant of Auschwitz, bored with his isolated life, takes walks to the fence s \"The Boy in the Striped Pajamas\" would easily top my list of \"Worst Books about the Holocaust.\" I am writing as one who was there -- I was once myself a boy in striped pajamas and am a survivor of six German concentration camps. This book is so ignorant of historical facts about concentration camps that it kicks the history of the Holocaust right in the teeth. John Boyne's premise is that the nine-year old son of the commandant of Auschwitz, bored with his isolated life, takes walks to the fence surrounding this infamous camp and meets there a nine-year old inmate who is on the other side of the fence. The two boys become friends and continue meeting on a daily basis. Here is some news for Mr. Boyne. The 10-ft high barbed wire fence surrounding each camp was electrified. Touch if once and you are fried. There was a no-man's land on each side of the fence; along the inside perimeter of the fence were guard towers; each tower was manned by an armed guard around the clock; each guard was responsible for one segment of the fence within his vision; it was his duty to prevent anyone from approaching the fence, either from the inside, or from the outside; he was under orders to shoot anyone he saw approaching the no-man's-land. In addition, along the outside perimeter, prominent signs proclaimed, \"STOP - Danger - High-Voltage Electricity.\" So that even a dense nine-year-old would get the message, a skull and cross-bones were pictured at the top of each sign. Let me add this. A nine-year-old boy arriving in Auschwitz-Birkenau on a cattle train would take only a single walk in this camp: from the train to the gas chamber. \"The Boy in The Striped Pajamas\" makes a mockery of these very basic facts. It is a fantasy that does untold damage to the cause of truth about the Holocaust. This book has only one purpose: to make a lot of money for the author and the publisher. And this purpose it accomplishes. The publisher recently proudly trumpeted in an ad in the New York Times: over one-million copies sold and still going strong. And that's not even counting the profits from the revolting movie based on this book. Peter Kubicek Author of \"MEMORIES OF EVIL\" -- a factual book about the Holocaust that will never make it on any list of best books about the Holocaust because my book tells it the way it was: there was nothing cute, nothing in any way benign about the concentration camps. These camps were about brutality, starvation, and sheer terror. ...more I seriously suggest you read about what happened to real children in the Holocaust. It won't fill your thoughts for many days or shock you; rather it will fill your LIFE and make you feel sick to the core of your being. Paul Friedlander, himself a survivor, recounts in his recent highly praised book the incident of 90 Jewish infants all under the age of five, orphaned after their parents were murdered in a mass shooting. These children were subjected to indescribable mistreatment for days. Then the I seriously suggest you read about what happened to real children in the Holocaust. It won't fill your thoughts for many days or shock you; rather it will fill your LIFE and make you feel sick to the core of your being. Paul Friedlander, himself a survivor, recounts in his recent highly praised book the incident of 90 Jewish infants all under the age of five, orphaned after their parents were murdered in a mass shooting. These children were subjected to indescribable mistreatment for days. Then they were individually hanged. I read this with horror, revulsion and total disbelief. (ref.The Years of Extermination: Nazi Germany and the Jews, 1939 - 1945) Or the incident of the young German soldier participating in the evacuation of the patients in the hospital in the Warsaw Ghetto. In the presence of a distraught Jewish crowd of relatives and onlookers, patients were being thrown onto the backs of trucks.The babies were being thrown from the upper windows. The soldier requested and was given permission to catch the falling babies on his bayonet. (ref. The Holocaust - the Jewish Tragedy by Martin Gilbert. ISBN 0 00 637194 9 ) There are so many historical inaccuracies and ludicrous details in this totally implausible story of Boyne's eg. Bruno's ignorance of basics, impossible when he would have been in the Hitler Youth and the Nazi education system.This travesty of the Holocaust is called a 'fable' as if with all its faults, it has special claim on some gravitas, thus giving Boyne justification for this lame expose of racism. I was a member of the Jewish Holocaust Committee here in Sydney for a while and once had to endure a young rabbi lecturing on how the Holocaust was God's punishment on the Jews. So there are fools to be found inside the club as well as outside it. Not a single pure ethnic German child entered a gas chamber as part of the extermination of the Jews...although many died in Germany as part of the pre-war killing of disabled and retarded children.When protests brought this program to a close the same staff were later sent to operate the gas chambers in the camps. And for six million Jewish men, women and children there was no saviour. This bitter pill is too much for some people to swallow. Some, like the young rabbi, takes refuge in blaming the very victims; others find refuge in sentimental fiction such as Boyne's which does no honour to these tragic, lost people. And today there are perverse forces abroad, from renowned historians to Catholic bishops, who would deny that the Holocaust ever took place or to an extraordinary lesser degree.They use every discrepancy of detail as well as lies to justify their denial. So for anyone touching on this subject it is vital and morally incumbent on them to GET THE FACTS RIGHT. There is an overwhelming library of rivetting, emotional, inspiring and tragic Holocaust stories out there - all factual, which you may have already plunged into. Boyne may even have led you there. But finally Boyne just deserves to fade away. P.S.The Oscar winning Foreign Language film of 1997, \"Life is Beautiful\", was also, not surprisingly, referred to as a 'fable'. It also is an implausible piece of Holocaust sentimentality and a stampede away from having to swallow the bitter pill of reality. ...more The Boy in the Striped Pajamas is truly an amazing yet daunting novel that I will never forget. The author John Boyne did a masterful job of depicting the setting in such vivid detail and exposing the events in a manner that I felt a constant emotional pull as the story unfolded and impending doom lingered on the horizon. I was recommended this novel a while back while reading The Book Thief , but after finishing that story and experiencing such deep sadness, I knew I couldn\u2019t jump into another no The Boy in the Striped Pajamas is truly an amazing yet daunting novel that I will never forget. The author John Boyne did a masterful job of depicting the setting in such vivid detail and exposing the events in a manner that I felt a constant emotional pull as the story unfolded and impending doom lingered on the horizon. I was recommended this novel a while back while reading The Book Thief , but after finishing that story and experiencing such deep sadness, I knew I couldn\u2019t jump into another novel about the Holocaust for quite some time. I\u2019m glad I waited because as with other works that cover this topic, distance and perspective is key. I feel the author did a grand job of juxtaposing two resounding themes in such a flawless manner; one being of the evil that was the Holocaust; against the second theme that of the innocence of a child. I thought it was brilliant of Boyne to tell the story from the perspective of a nine year old German boy as you experience the events of this abominable and unthinkable time in history as a mere complicit bystander, which ultimately leaves you with a sense of hopelessness. The story unfolds the day Bruno arrives home to discover his family is moving from Berlin to Auschwitz where his father will serve as a Commandant for the concentration camp. Bruno is forced to leave his three best friends for life and discovers that life in Auschwitz is lonely and desolate. All that changes the day he meets a boy his exact age and they begin to forge a friendship over the course of year. However, as much as he finds he and Schmuel have in common, living on opposite sides of the fence proves to have a devastating consequence to their friendship. After completing this book, I did some research on the author and the novel and found that he not only received well deserved praise for this book, but also harsh criticism. As with any piece of literature, when words are committed to page and presented to an audience for their interpretation there will be varying degrees of acceptance and backlash. Couple that with such a sensitive topic and you\u2019re bound to get a reaction. Well, my hats off to John Boyne for tackling a story through a unique perspective and presenting a poignant fable that as a reader I willingly suspended my reality and experienced the events in a way that exposed my emotions and feelings to such a raw level. Well done IMHO. ...more Found this in a charity shop and couldn't put it down once i started it. So sad. Really enjoyed it even though subject matter was heavy. Had no idea it would end how it did. A powerful concept, but very poorly written (even allowing for the young adult target audience) - and the only book I can think of that was better in the film version. Bruno is 9 and lives in Berlin in 1943 with his parents and 12 year old sister. They are wealthy and his father is an important soldier who is promoted to be the Commandant at Auschwitz. The trick of the story is that Bruno doesn't realise the horror of what goes on behind the barbed wire, where everyone wears striped pyjamas, even A powerful concept, but very poorly written (even allowing for the young adult target audience) - and the only book I can think of that was better in the film version. Bruno is 9 and lives in Berlin in 1943 with his parents and 12 year old sister. They are wealthy and his father is an important soldier who is promoted to be the Commandant at Auschwitz. The trick of the story is that Bruno doesn't realise the horror of what goes on behind the barbed wire, where everyone wears striped pyjamas, even when he befriends a boy of the same age at a corner of the camp. Although his father can be strict and distant, Bruno is unfailing in his trust in the goodness of his father. In the film, there was at least a gradual, if reluctant, dawning of doubt about his father and all he stood for, but that doesn't happen in the book; the themes of family, friendship and trust are barely touched on. The main problem is that it's told from Bruno's viewpoint, but the dialog doesn't ring true and Bruno is implausibly ignorant (extremely so) for a boy of his age, class and education. Not knowing, and not wanting to know, the horror of what was happening is entirely understandable (especially when a parent is involved). However, he hasn't heard of \"the Fatherland\", thinks the Fuhrer is called The Fury (throughout), that Auschwitz is called \"Out With\" and that \"Heil Hitler\" means \"goodbye\"! Yet we're meant to believe that he's the 9 year old son of a senior Nazi (and the puns wouldn't work in German, anyway)! His father had clearly been neglecting his duty to train the next generation of Hitler youth. But there are plenty of other flaws: * Surely some aspects of Schmuel's plight would have been glaringly obvious (emaciated, shorn hair, possibly lice-ridden, ragged clothes etc)? * There are several stock phrases that are trotted out annoyingly often (\"a Hopeless Case\", \"mouth in the shape of an O\", \"if he was honest as he always tried to be\"). * They talk of miles not kilometres and feet not centimetres, which might not matter were the rest of it more realistic. * Just occasionally, and completely out of character, Bruno talks in an unnaturally adult way (\"If you ask me we're all in the same boat. And it's leaking\", and a nasty person who \"always looked as if he wanted to cut someone out of his will\"). It might have worked better if Bruno had been 5 or 6, but I suppose the target audience would have been less willing to read it, so the result is a book that isn't really suitable for any age group. What a waste. Postscript , arising from Kelly Hawkins' review: Boyne says: I think the most frequent criticism of the book in the years since it\u2019s been published is that Bruno is too naive. People say: \u201cHe\u2019s verging on the stupid \u2013 how could he not know?\u201d For all the criticisms you can make, I always feel that\u2019s the wrong one because he\u2019s grown up in a house with his father wearing a uniform, so I always think why would be question it? There wouldn\u2019t be any motivation for him to suddenly turn around\u2026 if your father came home wearing a doctor\u2019s uniform every day, you wouldn\u2019t turn around one day and ask: \u201cWhy are you wearing that?\u201d So, Bruno is kind of representing that blindness, in a way. When he goes to the fence, and when he asks that question, he is kind of representing the rest of us who are trying to understand the Holocaust and find some answers to it. Also, when the camps were liberated, the world was surprised through 1945 and 1946. The majority of the Holocaust had taken place over four years and, granted, it was a different information age but I still maintain that in those sorts of movies, the naivety is appropriate. It\u2019s based on real life. From: http://www.indielondon.co.uk/Books-Re... Elsewhere, he is quoted as saying that naivety and complacency were two of the main reasons the Holocaust occurred ( http://yareviews.wikispaces.com/The+B... ). I find that a very unsatisfying defence. It answers why people don't want to know the horrors (which I fully acknowledge), but does not begin to tackle Bruno's specific ignorance of common words related to the Third Reich. Postscript 2, October 2015 His new book has a similar title and another Nazi theme - with Hitler himself this time: The Boy at the Top of the Mountain . I won't be reading that, but I suspect it will cause similar controversy. Postscript 3 See this review by a survivor of Nazi concentration camps, in which John Boyne responds to some of the criticisms, starting at comment #92: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show... ...more I'll give it this much. Few books have caused me to actually shake SHAKE in anger. Wow. I think I need to go boil my eyeballs for a while. What was the author thinking ? The Boy in the Striped Pajamas is a Holocaust \u201cfable\u201d by the Irish writer John Boyne, in which a nine-year-old German boy named Bruno arrives at Auschwitz (or as the novel coyly and annoyingly calls it \u201cOut-With\u201d) when his father is named as the camp\u2019s new commandant. Bruno is incredibly na\u00efve (to the point where I began to wonder whether he might not be mentally retarded, in which case he would most likely have been murdered under the Nazi euthanasia program long before the timeline of the book The Boy in the Striped Pajamas is a Holocaust \u201cfable\u201d by the Irish writer John Boyne, in which a nine-year-old German boy named Bruno arrives at Auschwitz (or as the novel coyly and annoyingly calls it \u201cOut-With\u201d) when his father is named as the camp\u2019s new commandant. Bruno is incredibly na\u00efve (to the point where I began to wonder whether he might not be mentally retarded, in which case he would most likely have been murdered under the Nazi euthanasia program long before the timeline of the book, thus sparing us this novel!) and thinks that the men in the striped pajamas whom he can see from his upstairs window are all on vacation, until he meets another boy (in the striped pajamas) named Schmuel and befriends him. Apparently, calling this book a \u201cfable\u201d precluded any attempt at historical accuracy or psychological acuity on the author\u2019s part. First, the premise that a nine-year-old boy in Nazi Germany wouldn\u2019t know who the F\u00fchrer was or what Heil Hitler meant is absolutely ludicrous (as is his ridiculous \u201cmishearing\u201d of F\u00fchrer as \u201cFury\u201d, which only works in English and not in German, where the word for \"fury\" is \"Zorn\" or \"Wut\"!) Bruno, at nine, is one year shy of mandatory membership in the Hitler-Jugend, and his sister Gretel, at 12, would have been in the BDM for the previous TWO years and moreover the children of a high-ranking SS officer would absolutely have known who Hitler was and not mixed up his name. So that gave me pause from about page 5 on. Bruno would be marginally more believable as a four- or five-year-old but then John Boyne wouldn\u2019t have been able to give him a Jewish counterpart. Even though there were some \u2013 VERY FEW! \u2013 little children who managed to survive Auschwitz, the chances that a five-year-old would have done so would be much smaller than even a nine-year-old\u2019s capacity to survive the initial selections and the work that was meant to slowly kill the inmates. Then add in all the other implausibilities such as not Bruno's not knowing what \u201cJews\u201d were or even the word \"Jew\", when Bruno would have been assaulted by propaganda against Jewish people virtually since his birth in 1934! Apparently, Bruno also doesn\u2019t know what an air-raid is, even though he\u2019s lived through them. REALLY? Then there is the part where the fence at Auschwitz is not only not electrified, and doesn\u2019t have guards and guarddogs, but even has a hole at the bottom. PLEASE! People didn\u2019t wander in and out of Auschwitz at will, or it would have been a very different place! Boyne\u2019s Nazis read like Colonel Klink in terms of their planning, not like the highly efficient mass-murderers they were. And let\u2019s not get started on how Schmuel apparently has the ability to mysteriously vanish from the constant Appells and the backbreaking labor that\u2019s probably the only reason he\u2019s still alive. And more trivially, Bruno wouldn't be reading Robert Louis Stevenson's Treasure Island - he'd be much more likely to be reading Karl May! All of my criticisms make me think that Boyne did absolutely no research on German history, the German language, Nazis, the Holocaust or Auschwitz, and I'm beyond irritated to find out that this book is being touted as \"the new Diary of Anne Frank \" and indeed, replacing that work for kids in some schools. This book trivializes the Holocaust and the murder of millions by turning these things into a feeble allegory about the universality of ethnic hatred and positing that all we really need are two boys who can crawl under the fences to each other. Blech! I don\u2019t understand why Boyne chose the Holocaust as its setting, as the novel says nothing meaningful about the Holocaust at all, its maudlin chocolate-box sentimentality (UGH, THE ENDING!) and simplistic narration in fact undercut the idea that Germans were willfully blind to what was being done in their name. Bruno\u2019s not just ignorant; he\u2019s actually stupid. Perhaps the story would have worked from the perspective of, say, Bruno\u2019s mother, and her blindness to what her husband was doing because his work assured them of a comfortable existence. But then again, I\u2019m not sure anything could have saved this pretentious twaddle! Save your money and buy the non-fiction The Diary of Anne Frank or Night by Elie Wiesel, or if you\u2019re set on a fictional tale about the Holocaust, then choose The Book Thief by Markus Zusak, which is a hell of a lot more believable even if it is narrated by Death himself! ...more Lincoln's doctor's dog. An archaic reference in the publishing industry to the notion that the way to ensure a book is a bestseller is to write about Lincoln, dogs, or doctors. This prompted one author to title his book which is about publishing in the 1930s Lincoln\u2019s Doctor\u2019s Dog. - From www.metaphordogs.org Maybe Lincoln, doctors and dogs have gone out of fashion; but children, the Holocaust and friendship are still the rage. So the sure-fire formula for creating a bestseller is to write a story Lincoln's doctor's dog. An archaic reference in the publishing industry to the notion that the way to ensure a book is a bestseller is to write about Lincoln, dogs, or doctors. This prompted one author to title his book which is about publishing in the 1930s Lincoln\u2019s Doctor\u2019s Dog. -\tFrom www.metaphordogs.org Maybe Lincoln, doctors and dogs have gone out of fashion; but children, the Holocaust and friendship are still the rage. So the sure-fire formula for creating a bestseller is to write a story about children\u2019s friendship during the Holocaust\u2026 \u2026even if you don\u2019t know the first thing about it. The Boy in Striped Pyjamas is the heart-warming (read \u201cemotionally manipulative\u201d) story of the doomed friendship between two pre-teen boys, born on the same day (one Jew and one the son of a Nazi) and its inevitable tragic conclusion. Yes, that\u2019s right: get your handkerchiefs here, folks. When I review a book, I look at both the medium and the content. Sometimes, you will find a great story which is badly written: at other times, a story which is only so-so will be made palatable through great prose. Sometimes you have both, and the book becomes really enjoyable. And when the medium and the content are so aptly intertwined to be inseparable, you have a truly great book. Very rarely, you have the misfortune to encounter a really abominable story which is abysmally written into the bargain \u2013 this happened to me with this book. The only good thing I can say about it is that it is a very fast read. Now for the analysis. The Background This book is historical fiction (yes, yes, I know that the author has claimed it is a fable situated in the time of the Holocaust: but unfortunately, the Holocaust is history) yet it pays no heed to historical accuracy. Auschwitz, according to my knowledge, had no children \u2013 they were sent to gas chambers the moment they arrived. Yet here we have a camp which is literally crawling with kids, almost like a kindergarten. We also have a German child Bruno, who despite being the son of a high-ranking Nazi officer who is very close to Hitler, does not know about Aryans, Jews and the concentration camps. Agreed, he may not be aware of the atrocities going on in those places: but in the real world, he would have been inducted into the fairy tales about Aryan supremacy and the \u201cJewish problem\u201d. In the book, Bruno remains blissfully ignorant about all until the end. He almost seems mentally challenged. My knowledge about Auschwitz comes from reading history books only, but as far as I know, the camps were guarded by electrified fences and patrolled heavily across the clock. It would not have been easy for somebody just to lift up the barbed wire and crawl in. And how was Schmuel (the Jewish boy) able to constantly evade the guards and come to the same spot at the fence where it was loose at the bottom? (Yeah, it\u2019s a fable, I know: maybe the exigencies of plot also had to do with the historical manipulation?) Characterisation Bruno is easily one of the most annoying protagonists ever created. Naivet\u00e9 one can understand \u2013 it is difficult to understand outright stupidity. The boy simply refuses to see what happens in front of his eyes. Even if he has not been indoctrinated (impossible, as mentioned earlier, in Nazi Germany), he would have picked up much more. Children do. Most of the other characters are pasteboard, including Schmuel, the Jewish kid, put there as props to support the plot and move it along. They are all one-dimensional other than the servant Maria and the Jewish doctor-turned-waiter Pavel. But they serve only to fill the space around Bruno. The Writing I could have forgiven Mr. Boyne for all these historical blunders and failures in characterisation, had he written good prose. But that is the most terrible part of the book \u2013 the prose is puerile. First, the repetition. Bruno\u2019s mouth forms an \u201cO\u201d and his hands stretch out at his sides whenever he is surprised, which is quite often: ultimately I started picturing him as a cartoon stick figure I used to draw as a kid. We are told that his sister Gretel is a Hopeless Case every time she is mentioned. The same with Father\u2019s office being Out Of Bounds At All Times And No Exceptions\u2026 I could go on and on. As a teen, I used to watch Hollywood war movies in which all Germans spoke English. While I could understand that this gimmick was required to avoid subtitles, sometimes they spoke English with a German accent\u2026 maybe to highlight their \u201cGerman-ness\u201d \u2026 this I found ridiculous. I had the same feeling about the puns Boyne used in this novel (\u201cFury\u201d for Fuhrer and \u201cOut-with\u201d for Auschwitz). I don\u2019t even know whether they will work in German. However, the biggest problem was the child\u2019s POV. It\u2019s just idiotic\u2026 an adult talking baby talk and trying to imitate a child. Once in a while, the adult pops out from behind the visage (\u201cwe are all in the same boat, and it\u2019s leaking\u201d). It\u2019s just tiresome. The narrative was problematic. Half the time, I was not sure whether the author was writing an adult\u2019s novel with a child\u2019s viewpoint, or a mature novel for children \u2013 it fails on both counts. As I said before, the child\u2019s POV does not work, and even with all the toned-down violence it\u2019s not a suitable novel for children. And plot holes\u2026 don\u2019t get me talking about them! From the loose fence under which one can crawl through, the story jumps from hole to hole till it drops into the biggest hole of them all, the tragic finale. By that time, Boyne is pushing all the emotional buttons, trying to bring the tears on at full throttle\u2026 but the real tragedy here is the death of literature. I understand that this book is a bestseller, and I can understand the reasons. I regret to say that this seems to me like adroit marketing of human tragedy\u2026 successful in this case. ...more Updated rating on 10/12/2016... Recently read a GR friend's review on this book which was remarkable! This prompted me to re-visit my own thoughts on the story and I found that my review doesn't fully resonate with me anymore. Initially, I rated this book a 3 - mainly because of challenges with believing that Bruno didn't know what was going on in the country (suspending disbelief). This was one of my earlier reviews and I think that I was a bit harsher than normal. This is a book that has \"staye Updated rating on 10/12/2016... Recently read a GR friend's review on this book which was remarkable! This prompted me to re-visit my own thoughts on the story and I found that my review doesn't fully resonate with me anymore. Initially, I rated this book a 3 - mainly because of challenges with believing that Bruno didn't know what was going on in the country (suspending disbelief). This was one of my earlier reviews and I think that I was a bit harsher than normal. This is a book that has \"stayed with\" me over the year plus that I have read it. It is heartbreaking, it is unique, it is important. Therefore, I have updated my rating to a 4+. I would definitely recommend it to all readers - especially readers who are interested in a different view of the Holocaust. I have not modified my initial review below. I have since found that I was wrong about the age for participation in Hitler Youth (should have better researched!! ) ... https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hitler_... Thanks for bearing with my review #2!! ------------------------------------------------- I struggled with rating The Boy in the Striped Pajamas -- which is rather unusual for me. The book was a page-turner and a tear-jerker. (view spoiler) [The ending is horrific, but you may be able to see it coming.... (hide spoiler) ] The concept of the story was unique. A 9 year old German boy whose father is a high-ranking soldier in the SS moves with his family to a house outside of Auschwitz and \"befriends\" a boy on the other side of the fence. For these reasons, I did like the book. However, some parts of the plot were so far-fetched to me that I had to take away a couple of stars. For instance, I can't imagine how a 9 year old with a German soldier father is not aware of anything that is going on at this time -- has not heard the term Jew even. Wouldn't he have been in Hitler Youth ? Or heard something? He lived in Berlin prior. Or did he sit in his room with his eyes closed and talk to no one? How could he continue to see his friend every day at the same time and not realize that it wasn't pleasant over on that side of the fence? Seriously, he thought that gunshots and then people not getting up were rehearsing a play? Also, Bruno came across to me as so self-centered that it made me want to throttle him. He notices as his friend looks skinnier and skinnier, grayer and grayer... but he doesn't save him the slice of chocolate cake? He lies about knowing him to the cruel soldier who catches him eating food? Last challenge on the plot -- if there was a hole in the fence that a person (or child) could crawl through, why hadn't others used it? I really did think that this was a good book and is worthy of a read. I just think it is a bit far-fetched. ...more There is nothing to learn from this book. There is much to dislike. From certain perspectives, it can even be said to be detestable. First of all, there is the authorial conceit that the work is written from the perspective of a child. The worst example of this come in the use of euphemisms for the Fuhrer ('the Fury') and for Auschwitz ('Out With') which become increasingly irritating as the work progresses. Bruno's 'difficulty' with these words is somehow supposed to charm us, and apparently giv There is nothing to learn from this book. There is much to dislike. From certain perspectives, it can even be said to be detestable. First of all, there is the authorial conceit that the work is written from the perspective of a child. The worst example of this come in the use of euphemisms for the Fuhrer ('the Fury') and for Auschwitz ('Out With') which become increasingly irritating as the work progresses. Bruno's 'difficulty' with these words is somehow supposed to charm us, and apparently gives the reader 'in the know' a soft, patronising glow which is presumably there to create a certain kind of sympathy for Bruno. It is interesting to note that Bruno apparently had no difficulty with the Boy in the Striped Pyjamas's name of Schmuel (maybe he could have referred to him as the 'mule'?). The same tweeness is in the description of the prison garb as 'striped pyjamas', ahtough that is less irritating. It is really pushing the envelope to assume that Bruno is as naive as depicted. At age 8/9 he would have been in school, and subject to the indoctrination of the Hitler Youth; and he certainly would have been fully aware of not only Hitler, but how to pronounce Fuhrer! Indeed, it is this apparent ignorance of even the most basic things about Hitler's Germany, and it's attitude to Jews, that would have been brainwashed into the minds of German Youth, that is hardest to come to grips with. The author's 'childlike' writing permits him to draw several obscuring veils over the whole question. Even at the end, as Bruno and Schmuel go hand in hand into the 'darkness' and 'disappear' there is really nothing to indicate what happened to them. A child reading this, without any awareness of the horrors of Auschwitz, could be forgiven for believing simply that they 'disappeared' into some mysterious unknown. Thus despite its cutesy language, the book is obviously intended to be read by adults who presumably DO know what happened to them; and that fact alone makes the writing condescending and patronising to say the least. Since the reader is presumed to know these things, they will also know that the situation described in the book could never have happened. There is sufficient doubt whether any 8/9 year-old child would have ever survived past the first few hours at Auschwitz, except as possible 'medical experiment' subjects; it is hard to believe that Schmuel could have consistently been able to meet Bruno for the period of a whole year without being discovered and dealt with; and in any case, would he really have had access to a depot where other 'striped pyjamas of Bruno's size were stored?... And, by the way, isn't it lucky that Schmuel speaks German. Had he been from some other country and spoken a different language, who knows how the story might have gone? These are just some of the many irritations to be found in the book. The author has tried to justify it by arguing that the story is a fable, and that these things don't matter. But if it is a fable, then fables usually teach a moral of some kind. What is the moral in this story? Don't trust in the friendship of Jews? Innocence and ignorance is no protection for awful things to happen to you? The fact that people feel saddened by the ending, or even shocked by it, is even more repellent: the sadness seems to be reserved for poor, innocent, ignorant Bruno, who goes to his death still innocent, and still ignorant. Because of the 'hiding' of the reality of the Auschwitz atrocities, the whole situation regarding Schmuel and the other victims seems to disappear, just as Schmuel and Bruno do. Sad, isn't it? I cannot help but feel deep repulsion towards this 'fable'. That such a deeply offensive approach is somehow apparently easily disregarded because of a twee authorial trick of using sweet, sugary language, and helps make it such a popular, 'safe' book (no nasties crawling about here!) makes me despair at the dulling of any critical facilities or acumen on behalf of the public who love it. The book is inane, badly written, historically inaccurate, lacking in any sense of moral teaching (no one in the book 'learns' anything, or even changes their attitude to anything) and is hardly inspiring. It is banal. ...more This story. I'm glad I finally read it. It's taken me years to pick it up and watching the movie last month gave me the nudge to finally read it. Actually seeing it was worse (in the movie) in terms of heartbreak and devastation. Such a powerful read, but not for the faint of heart. When his father is promoted to Commandant in the German army and his family is transferred from their comfy home in Berlin to a strange place called Out-With, nine year-old Bruno has no idea of the true nature of his new surroundings. Indeed, he is also unaware of the horrors being perpetrated at the command of the German leader, the Fury, who visits the family one evening. He is unimpressed by the small man with his tiny ineffectual moustache. The dreaded concentration camp as seen through Bruno When his father is promoted to Commandant in the German army and his family is transferred from their comfy home in Berlin to a strange place called Out-With, nine year-old Bruno has no idea of the true nature of his new surroundings. Indeed, he is also unaware of the horrors being perpetrated at the command of the German leader, the Fury, who visits the family one evening. He is unimpressed by the small man with his tiny ineffectual moustache. The dreaded concentration camp as seen through Bruno\u2019s eyes is simply a place of many, many long huts and the people who wear an odd sort of striped pyjamas. Starved for company, Bruno\u2019s explorations lead him to meet a new friend, Shmuel, a boy his own age who, for reasons Bruno cannot understand, looks like a small sad bony caricature of a normal boy. Bruno\u2019s innocence and his friendship with Shmuel will ultimately have catastrophic results on his life and that of his family\u2019s. Written as seen through young Bruno\u2019s eyes, the book perhaps lacks the visual punch that the movie delivers but this is still a worthwhile and sadly heartbreaking novel. John Boyne cleverly approaches the spectre of Auschwitz and the internment of the Jews from a totally new perspective. A solid thought-provoking novel from one of the best Irish writers. 4\u2605 My advice would be to read the book before watching the movie. ...more Another case of some unscrupulous bastard making money with overwrought dramatizations of real tragedies. The Holocaust was a crime beyond imagining, and tying in adorable children and cliched tales of ~Friendship~ would only make the book more tempting to those easily swayed by the spell of sentimentality. Urgh. I finished this book yesterday and I am still having trouble forming an opinion--but here it goes. I have thought about it a lot which is generally a sign of good writing, but in this case, maybe I am thinking about it because the book disturbed me. If I look at the Holocaust historical fiction genre as a whole, I am not sure what this book adds to the group. It does show another point of view, from the child of the Commandant of Auschwitz, but Bruno is so terrifically dense--naive well beyond hi I finished this book yesterday and I am still having trouble forming an opinion--but here it goes. I have thought about it a lot which is generally a sign of good writing, but in this case, maybe I am thinking about it because the book disturbed me. If I look at the Holocaust historical fiction genre as a whole, I am not sure what this book adds to the group. It does show another point of view, from the child of the Commandant of Auschwitz, but Bruno is so terrifically dense--naive well beyond his nine years--that I am not sure what the point is. Bruno talks to his Jewish friend on the other side of the fence for over a year--he lives in his house which also serves as the headquarters of Auschwitz for over a year--and I am supposed to believe that he doesn't have any clue what is going on in the camp? I know children are narcissistic and self involved, but this book takes that idea to a whole other level. Bruno's tunnel vision is so great that I keep wondering if maybe that it was some sort of message that the author was trying to get across. Maybe that kids can create and live in an alternate reality as long as they need to? Was that the point? If not, what was the point? Surely it wasn't the shocking ending that served little in adding to the greater story of the Holocaust. The ending served no purpose. It didn't make the father see what was wrong, it didn't make the guards question what they were doing, it didn't make the Jews who died in the camp any less tragic, what was the ending's purpose? My guess is just shock value. I do think the book makes an excellent argument for being honest with children in even the worst circumstances. By trying to protect kids and shield kids, adults put them in greater danger! I will say one positive thing, I thought the non-traditional book jacket was a good marketing ploy. By not giving away any of the plot points, it makes the reader intrigued. But, overall, I am flummoxed. The book is an enigma which, possibly, is better left unsolved. ...more No s\u00e9 si deber\u00eda hacer una rese\u00f1a de este libro porque el editor espec\u00edficamente decidi\u00f3 no hacerlo para no revelar nada sobre la historia\u2026 Supongo que podr\u00eda tratar de revelar lo menos posible, tratando de imitar un poco el estilo del autor Bruno es un ni\u00f1o de 9 a\u00f1os cuya vida est\u00e1 a punto de cambiar, ver\u00e1n el siempre ha vivido en una hermosa casa de 5 plantas en Berl\u00edn con Padre, Madre y su hermana la tonta de remate, pero debido a una orden del \u201cFurias\u201d (el jefe de Padre) el, con toda su famil No s\u00e9 si deber\u00eda hacer una rese\u00f1a de este libro porque el editor espec\u00edficamente decidi\u00f3 no hacerlo para no revelar nada sobre la historia\u2026 Supongo que podr\u00eda tratar de revelar lo menos posible, tratando de imitar un poco el estilo del autor Bruno es un ni\u00f1o de 9 a\u00f1os cuya vida est\u00e1 a punto de cambiar, ver\u00e1n el siempre ha vivido en una hermosa casa de 5 plantas en Berl\u00edn con Padre, Madre y su hermana la tonta de remate, pero debido a una orden del \u201cFurias\u201d (el jefe de Padre) el, con toda su familia, deber\u00e1n dejar la hermosa casa, se despedir\u00e1 de sus tres amigos para toda la vida, y de los abuelos, para ir a vivir en una casa horrenda de dos plantas, muy lejos de Berlin. Aunque Bruno ha dicho una y otra vez a Madre y tambi\u00e9n a Padre que no le gusta la idea de mudarse, estos, como adultos que son no le hacen caso, as\u00ed Bruno llega a esta horrenda casa que esta frente a una cerca muy, muy larga que a la vista parece interminable, y no solo es larga tambi\u00e9n es alta, y rematada con p\u00faas en su punta, pero lo m\u00e1s curiosos es que, al otro lado de la cerca hay muchas personas que se visten de pijamas de rayas, con una gorra a juego tambi\u00e9n a rayas y que siempre andan descalzos. Al otro lado de la cerca no solo hay adultos tambi\u00e9n muchos ni\u00f1os que parecieran estuvieran jugando con los soldados\u2026. Que injusticia \u00bfporque todos ellos pueden jugar y estar juntos? y Bruno no tiene a nadie para jugar, solo a su hermana la tonta de remate. En un d\u00eda muy aburrido Bruno decide explorar la cerca y despu\u00e9s de caminar m\u00e1s de una hora, ve que al otro lado de la cerca hay a un ni\u00f1o muy flaco, y demacrado con la piel de un color enfermizo, y los pies muy sucios, Bruno, aun cuando no deber\u00eda hablar con extra\u00f1os, decide hablar con \u00e9l. El ni\u00f1o se llama Shmuel , que nombre tan extra\u00f1o dice Bruno, Shmuel le dice que de su lado hay muchos Shmuels, los ni\u00f1os (siendo ni\u00f1os al fin) entablan amistad r\u00e1pidamente, y Bruno queda con Shmuel de visitarlo de ahora en adelante todos los d\u00edas venideros. Voy a cortarla por ac\u00e1 y les dir\u00e9 lo que pienso del libro Lo bueno: Un estilo de narraci\u00f3n maravilloso, que toma como narrador a un ni\u00f1o y nos hace ver el mundo como \u00e9l lo ve, donde su inocencia ser\u00e1 como una burbuja que lo separara de la realidad. Lo malo: la narraci\u00f3n es muy subjetiva, porque como ya lo dije Bruno es un ni\u00f1o, no se explican muchas cosas, si no se tienen conocimientos de la segunda guerra mundial, quiz\u00e1s no se entienda la historia. En resumen, El ni\u00f1o con el pijama de rayas es una historia muy bonita, e inocente, pero tambi\u00e9n muy triste, pase por varios momentos en los que quer\u00eda entrar en el libro y golpear a cierto soldado, abrazar a Shmuel y explicarle a Bruno todo lo que est\u00e1 pasando a su alrededor, \u00a1y ese final! no puedo decir que no me lo esperaba, pero no por ello dejo de conmoverme. P.D. Personalmente no pienso que este libro sea para ni\u00f1os, lo recomendar\u00eda (concordando con el editor) a mayores de 13 a\u00f1os ...more Berlin 1942 Bruno is 9 years old, and the Nazis horrific Final Solution to the \"Jewish Problem\" means nothing to him. He is completely unaware of the barbarity of Germany under Hitler. His father is promoted and he has to with his family to move in the near of Auschwitz-Birkenau. He believes that the people in the camp have a good life, until one day he meets Shmuel, a little b0y. Bruno wonders why Shmuel and the other people have blue striped pyjamas. They discover that they have some things in Berlin 1942 Bruno is 9 years old, and the Nazis horrific Final Solution to the \"Jewish Problem\" means nothing to him. He is completely unaware of the barbarity of Germany under Hitler. His father is promoted and he has to with his family to move in the near of Auschwitz-Birkenau. He believes that the people in the camp have a good life, until one day he meets Shmuel, a little b0y. Bruno wonders why Shmuel and the other people have blue striped pyjamas. They discover that they have some things in common such as the same birthday on the same day. Soon, Bruno is smuggled food to Shmuel and they are good friends. One day Bruno crawling under a fence in the camp... This is a book about war, unlike any others. I highly recommend this- but be prepared for a sleepless night afterward. ...more Monica Edinger said: ** spoiler alert ** I don't see the point of this book at all. Doesn't work as an allegory, a fable, or anything else. The boy (both boys, for that matter) are naive beyond belief. The German boy's misuse of language is completely not credible. Want to give a kid a book on this topic? Anne Frank. I added: Completely agree, Monica. What I find so distressing is how many educators are making this part of the curriculum. They think it is a great and oh-so-moving book and are wor Monica Edinger said: ** spoiler alert ** I don't see the point of this book at all. Doesn't work as an allegory, a fable, or anything else. The boy (both boys, for that matter) are naive beyond belief. The German boy's misuse of language is completely not credible. Want to give a kid a book on this topic? Anne Frank. I added: Completely agree, Monica. What I find so distressing is how many educators are making this part of the curriculum. They think it is a great and oh-so-moving book and are working hard to convince kids of the same. ...more :c I feel very emotionally manipulated and I don't like that at all. I knew the ending of this book was going to be sad. It wasn't what I thought would happen; it's probably the farthest from what I thought. And yes it's sad but I feel like I have no choice but to be sad. This book was not really about the Holocaust, it really was not about the relationship between a German boy and a Jewish boy during the Holocaust--it was a book that was just built up to that second to last chapter with the only p I feel very emotionally manipulated and I don't like that at all. I knew the ending of this book was going to be sad. It wasn't what I thought would happen; it's probably the farthest from what I thought. And yes it's sad but I feel like I have no choice but to be sad. This book was not really about the Holocaust, it really was not about the relationship between a German boy and a Jewish boy during the Holocaust--it was a book that was just built up to that second to last chapter with the only purpose of making readers sad and angry and upset. I honestly feel like there is no other way to interpret this book other than it was a book that was writing for the sole purpose of making the reader distraught, to invoke some intense negative reaction. This book just wanted a reaction. I feel sad right now, yes, but that's because I actually have no other option; I was emotionally manipulated to feel this way. Little innocent boy meets other little innocent boy and horrible thing happens therefore I must feel upset, no questions asked, no room for other emotions or feelings or opinions. So yes, this book was sad and made me sad but that's all it did. And this emotional manipulation actually makes me kind of angry because I was expecting something really great, and, I don't know, profound from this book? I just almost feel betrayed. I wanted something great and instead I got a book that leaves no room for any personal interpretation, no real personal meaning. I don't want to sound insensitive (I don't think I do but I\"m just going to say this anyway): obviously the Holocaust was absolutely horrific and what happened at the end of this book was terrible but.....this book just didn't feel like the right way to write about this topic. And there really is no right way, I know that, but something about it just rubbed me the wrong way. It was an interesting point of view on the Holocaust, though, through the eyes of someone so innocent. But I can't believe that with a father like the one that Bruno had that after a year of living within 50 feet of Auschwitz Bruno still knew absolutely nothing about what was happening. That really is not realistic. If his father was running Auschwitz, you better believe his son would know why there were people there, generally what was happening, Bruno would have the mindset that he was better than Schmuel and everyone else in the camp. He may have been young, but children are incredibly impressionable and he would have believe anything his father told him. The point of view of this story was very interesting and it was different, I give it that. And I liked the writing style: it was very simple but there was a charm to it. I wish that the relationship between the boys was written a little differently somehow; I don't know how, again, something about this book just feels a little off to me. I don't hate the book. But I don't love it, either. ...more THE BOY IN THE STRIPED PAJAMAS is The Book I Have Hated Most in My Adult Life -- or perhaps my whole life, as I don't remember hating any book this much as a child or teenager. I loathed the main character, I loathed the fact that the story to me had no point, and I especially loathed the author's air of self-satisfaction at having created \"A Fable.\" I reviewed it on my blog a long time ago; go here for the full text, or read the main argument below. Seriously, if someone can explain to me why y THE BOY IN THE STRIPED PAJAMAS is The Book I Have Hated Most in My Adult Life -- or perhaps my whole life, as I don't remember hating any book this much as a child or teenager. I loathed the main character, I loathed the fact that the story to me had no point, and I especially loathed the author's air of self-satisfaction at having created \"A Fable.\" I reviewed it on my blog a long time ago; go here for the full text, or read the main argument below. Seriously, if someone can explain to me why you saw this as a good book or how you understood its point, I'd appreciate it. +++ I didn't like the main character, so I hated the story, and I didn't see the point Mr. Boyne was going after, so I felt he wasted my time. Throughout the book, Mr. Boyne can't decide how ignorant either his readers are or Bruno should be. Bruno knows at one point that there's a war going on, but later, when his sister Gretel moves pins around a map of Europe, he doesn't understand what she's doing. He has never heard of Hitler (whom he calls \"The Fury\"), nor of Jews. If the author had made him five or six rather than nine, then this might have been believable; as it is, it feels completely author-constructed and -manipulated, and it made me have zilch respect for Bruno -- or less than zilch, actually, as he's also a spoiled, selfish, ignorant brat. The author seems to like him, or at least think he's an okay kid doing the best he can, but when Bruno deliberately turns a blind eye to his \"friend's\" suffering and beatings . . . not okay! Who wants to hang out with a kid like that? Boyne continues the ignorance game by keeping the name \"Auschwitz\" away from his readers with that \"Out-with\" -- a ploy I couldn't figure out, because if readers were approaching the story from the same ignorance as Bruno, they wouldn't have heard of Auschwitz, so it wouldn't matter if the name was included; and if readers knew anything about the Holocaust, they would see through it, and then it would come off as cutesy and evasive. The same is true of the ending: Without a knowledge of the Holocaust, readers would have had no idea Bruno went to the gas chamber, and therefore the story would have had no meaning for them. \"He disappeared? Is that all?\" If you have that knowlege, then I suppose you can recognize that Bruno has been punished for his ignorance, but without the main character grasping the message, the story is neither satisfying nor clear. And is that even Boyne's point? According to a number of reviews, yes; they claim Bruno's deliberate ignorance is an allegory for the willful blindness of adult Germans during the War. Perhaps so, but in that case, Boyne should have shown us Bruno's death scene so readers understood the consequences of such ignorance, no matter their prior knowledge of the situation; and the message would have been infinitely more effective if the book were written in first person or Bruno was at least respectable (if not likeable), so I gave a damn when he died. The musical \"Cabaret\" focuses on that same willful ignorance, but the moral power of the show arises from the audience's awareness of that ignorance throughout the debauchery onstage, and its creators' final condemnation of that ignorance and display of its effects in the last scene of the show. If this is Boyne's point also, he's removed all the teeth from it. And if it's not, then, as Roger Sutton said in his Horn Book review -- \"If Auschwitz is the metaphor, what's the real story?\" ...more I've had this book on my To-Read list for a long time, since I really enjoy reading books of this kind. I haven't seen the movie, and I really had no idea what to expect from this one. That being said, I wish I could have liked it more than I did. This story is told in 3rd person limited, from the perspective of a 9 year old boy. Bruno, our main character, is moved unexpectedly from his large home with 5 floors (if you count the basement and the little room with the high window at the top) in Be I've had this book on my To-Read list for a long time, since I really enjoy reading books of this kind. I haven't seen the movie, and I really had no idea what to expect from this one. That being said, I wish I could have liked it more than I did. This story is told in 3rd person limited, from the perspective of a 9 year old boy. Bruno, our main character, is moved unexpectedly from his large home with 5 floors (if you count the basement and the little room with the high window at the top) in Berlin to Out-With, where the house is only 3 floors (if you count the basement) where he's bored, has no friends, nowhere to explore, and nothing to do except look at the people behind the fence wearing the striped pajamas. Bruno doesn't know who the people behind the fence are, or why they are there, or... well, anything. And it just wasn't believable to me that he should be so obliviously naive, which is one of the major issues that I had with this book, and a big part of why I found it so disappointing in the end. I have a few reasons for not believing in Bruno's \"innocence\". First, Bruno was born in Berlin in 1934, well into the Nazi party's regime. I cannot find it in myself to believe that Bruno could have lived 9 years in this environment of anti-Semitism and have never even heard of a Jew before. This kid went to public school, and hung around other boys both his age and older. Bruno's own father is in the Nazi military, had \"The Fury\" to his house for dinner, and was personally given orders by \"The Fury\". I don't believe that the term \"Jew\" was never, not once, used in Bruno's presence, by someone at school, or on the street (which is so busy that you could be pushed from pillar to post, specifically), or in his own household. People who hate, especially in an environment where that hatred is not only tolerated but encouraged and treated as \"right\", generally hate vociferously. It's not something we're born with, it's something we must be taught. That's how racism works. So it doesn't make sense to me that someone who obviously believes that Jews are inferior, who feels that Germans have been wronged by the Jews, who feels that Jews should be punished, and that those who disagree are cowards at best and traitors at worst, as Bruno's father clearly seems to believe, would fail to delineate the \"us\" from the \"them\" to his son. And Bruno is not stupid, though he is rather self-centered, and sees everything around him in terms of his own life experiences. But he notices things, even if he doesn't understand them or their significance. And we see in the course of the story that when he's curious enough about something, he'll ask for information about it, even if he doesn't really learn the right info, since usually his equally self-centered and ignorant sister is providing the answers. But still, it just doesn't work for me that he should be portrayed as such an innocent blank slate. I grew up in an area where racism was very common, but thankfully my mom taught me differently - and started doing so early, by which I mean around the time I could talk. Very young children mimic, and at some point every child will have heard something they shouldn't have and then repeated it. It's inevitable. Young children also ask a bajillion embarrassing questions. \"Mommy, why is that lady's skin so dark?\" \"Mommy, why is that man so fat?\" \"Mommy, why does that man get a yellow star? I want a star!\" Just ask Louis CK about the Why Game. I don't have kids, but even I know that it's never ending. Why? Why? Why? Why? Why? Why? Why? Why? Over and over and over... Any of these kinds of things would have been perfect times for Nazi Dad to say, \"Well, little Bruno, that man gets a star because he's a Jew, and we're rounding him, his family, and everyone like him up so that we can cleanse the earth of their filth.\" But he didn't, apparently, which begs the question: Why not? Nazis were in power, and they even had programs specifically designed for indoctrinating kids. But little Bruno was kept ignorant of the attitudes of the period. Because if he hadn't been, then this story wouldn't be possible: Bruno wouldn't have been that innocent, naive, oblivious blank slate he had to be. And that's a huge plot hole for me, and a big disappointment. Moving along to the writing itself, I have to say that, again, it was something of a disappointment. Well, the writing wasn't terrible, but some of the techniques used within it were irritating as hell. Like this line: \"The rope was easy enough to find as there were bales of it in the basement of the house and it didn't take long to do something extremely dangerous and find a sharp knife and cut as many lengths of it as he thought he might need.\" First, why does the narrator feel the need to specify that knives are dangerous? Because Bruno is 9? Secondly, not only is it a run-on sentence, but what exactly is \"extremely dangerous\"? Finding the sharp knife, or using it? Third, why even mention the tool used at all? Why not just say \"The rope was easy enough to find as there were bales of it in the basement of the house and it didn't take long to cut as many lengths of it as he thought he might need.\" It feels very much as if the narrator was talking down to the reader, and trying to protect them perhaps? I'm not a huge fan of that. Let readers think for themselves. Another two examples of this protection thing: 1) The narrator has a bad habit of editing out the terms the Nazis used to describe Jews. \"'Hey, you!' he shouted, then adding a word that Bruno did not understand. 'Come over here, you--' He said the word again, and something about the harsh sound of it made Bruno look away and feel ashamed to be part of this at all.\" Bruno may not know the term, but why edit it? Let's look at Harry Potter for a second. When Hermione is first called a Mudblood by Draco Malfoy, it's not edited out, despite Harry not knowing the term. Instead, he picks up from context that it's derogatory and ugly, and we, as the reader, do the same. That's the proper way to communicate to readers, and to trust them to understand and be shocked by the term and its intent. 2) The narrator cuts away from anything resembling violent action. In a scene where a Jewish waiter spills wine on a Nazi soldier, we're treated to this: \"What happened then was both unexpected and extremely unpleasant. [Nazi] grew very angry with [Jew] and no one [...] stepped in to stop him doing what he did next, even though none of them could watch.\" I edited out names, but regarding the action in that scene, that's it. Of course, we can imagine what happened. Of course, we know how brutal Nazis, and people in general, can be. But then at the end of the story, we're left with these lines: \"Of course all this happened a long time ago and nothing like that could ever happen again. Not in this day and age.\" Nice. Some reverse psychology there. Tell us nothing like that could happen now , because we're all so tolerant and peaceful. The object is that we start questioning whether it could happen, or even whether it could be happening now. Subtle. Except again it's a fail, because we learn nothing at all from this book. What's the point? \"Pay attention\"? To what? If Boyne is not even willing to call out the behavior we're supposed to think is so bad, not willing to show people how needlessly cruel and brutal and inhumanly awful people have been to others, what the hell is stopping us from being way that now? We wouldn't recognize it if we saw it. We don't learn anything by promoting ignorance and whitewashing the past. Bruno may not have understood what was happening around him, but a skilled writer takes that character's lack of understanding and shows the reader the truth. Boyne tried his hand at this, and succeeded in a small way, in that the reader understood more of what the Jews were going through than Bruno did, but too much was avoided in the guise of protecting the reader, and overall, it failed. Bruno never learned anything. He never grew as a character. He was as self-centered at the end as he was in the beginning. Disappointing. This book could have been so amazingly powerful by showing the true horror of Auschwitz through the eyes of a child. But it didn't. It shied away from everything that would have meant something. And that's the biggest disappointment of all. ...more This post will be 100% rant because I hated the book and thus I need to rant lengthily about it. Consider yourself warned. So what is this book about? A little German boy during World War II. He is also the son of the dude who is newly in charge of Auschwitz! But this son of an SS officer seems to know nothing at all about Nazism or Hitler. Does he know the word Jew? Nope, never heard it. Has his schooling or family or nazi family friends/neighbors ever vaguely mentioned the inherit superiority o This post will be 100% rant because I hated the book and thus I need to rant lengthily about it. Consider yourself warned. So what is this book about? A little German boy during World War II. He is also the son of the dude who is newly in charge of Auschwitz! But this son of an SS officer seems to know nothing at all about Nazism or Hitler. Does he know the word Jew? Nope, never heard it. Has his schooling or family or nazi family friends/neighbors ever vaguely mentioned the inherit superiority of his race? Neeever , why would they do that? Oh wait, of course they would do that. Why does this not happen?? Bruno is a nine-year old child. Except, he doesn't act it. He was too innocent for his age, which is fine, because isn't innocence a good thing? Probably, he is too naive and there are kids like that too. So I was fine with accepting that Bruno acts younger than his age, except that there are times he acts too old as well. And that's when it started bothering me. I couldn't make sense of him. Even quirkiness and eccentricity are character attributes, but in this case, it just wasn't that. I didn't feel that the author did a great job with his character. It appeared to me that Bruno was just a tool to move the story along and he behaves differently each time based on how the story should move. What might be more nonsense, or at least in the same nonsense vein, is all of the weird English puns that go on. Not like funny puns... let me try to explain. Little German Bruno hears Auschwitz and thinks people are saying \"out-with.\" He asks \"out with what?\" Ummmm, this doesn't make sense seeing as you don't speak English? It also does not make sense that he thinks people are saying the Fury instead of the Fuhrer. Fuhrer means leader in German! YOU KNOW THIS WORD, TINY BRUNO. And Heil Hitler isn't a gibberish way to say goodbye! How has Hitler not been covered in school/everyday life?? I get that this is trying to present an innocent child's perspective, but it's not realistic in any way. Linguistically or historically. And I think it's offensive to assume that your young readers are not smart enough to understand this story without nonsense English puns. I'm not going to spoil this book for you all. I wouldn't do that. But basically the family moves right next door to Auschwitz and little Bruno has no idea what's going on in the concentration camp. It doesn't seem so bad, because the boys over there get to have friends and he doesn't, you see! But anyway, one day he sneaks off to wander around the fence of the concentration camp and there he meets a little boy. Because why would there be guards near the border of a concentration camp? I'll let the fence nonsense slide (there's more of it) because it's fiction, yeah yeah, I know. So the little boy tells Bruno some really sad stories about how mean the soldiers are and how his father was in the camp but then suddenly disappeared and how he used to live in Poland but then they had to come here on a really packed train. And Bruno is all \"That's nice. Now I need to go back to my hard life where my stupid sister sometimes teases me. So you can see why I can't be all that sympathetic about your hard life, right? Bye!\" I just couldn't deal with how DUMB Bruno is. He seems just intentionally dense, completely misunderstanding everything, no matter how many times they are explained to him. There was no subtlety in The Boy in the Striped Pajamas. I wouldn't have been surprised if Hitler had been flipping gas chamber switches and twirling his tiny mustache while laughing maniacally at the end. Don't even get me started on how not at all traumatized sweet Bruno is by watching at least two people get shot. I can suspend my disbelief to a certain extent, but not when the end result is damaging. Or nonsense. There's only so much a girl can take!! And I love a good cry, but there's only so much blatant manipulation I can accept before I roll my eyes. I know this book moved a lot of people and I can see why, but how unrealistic it was just pushed me over the edge and it did not work for me at all. I love the idea of a storyline and theme that express two very innocent young boys living in a torn world. All around them, Nazi followers are persecuting and exterminating Jews. However, the boys still manage to break down the religion barrier between them and develop a strong friendship. They don't see any menacing differences in each other. Instead, all they see is a good friend. Thus, they are able to show the world that children can be more wise and compassionate than adults because they are more accepting of their differences. But John has completely botched it up by his immature writing. The thing is, there are so many moving, excellently-written Holocaust books (massive plug for The Book Thief here), while this one just annoyed me to no end. It's hard to write negatively about a Holocaust book without seeming like a completely heartless jerk (and maybe I am), but I don't feel like that's why I didn't like the book. I just didn't like it because I felt like it wasn't very well-done, and I felt totally manipulated as a reader. And now I feel like I have to defend myself and say things like, \"I really do believe the Holocaust happened! I swear!\" and \"I think what Hitler did was unconscionable! Promise!\" And really, that irritates me even more. Because all I want to do is point a finger at this book and say \"You just aren't very good. And I won't recommend you.\" ...more N\u00e3o me pronuncio sobre a qualidade liter\u00e1ria deste livro, mas a abordagem da obra \u00e9 aviltante. O Holocausto j\u00e1 nos ofereceu o absurdo; dispensa bem o absurdo das impossibilidades. Se pode ser \"b\u00e1rbaro\" ficcionar sobre Auschwitz, fantasiar ser\u00e1 sempre obsceno. 3.5 stars The beginnings of the chapters were very repetitive. A heartbreaker of a story about the Holocaust told through the eyes of a naive nine year old Bruno, (his father is Commandant), who befriends a Jewish boy who lives on the OTHER side of the fence. The ending of this book is not one I will soon forget! A heart-breaking and tragic historical fiction set during World War II. We follow the story of a nine year old boy named Bruno. Bruno loves living in his wonderful house in Berlin but he is soon told that his family need to move to a new house due to his Father's job. Once at the new house Bruno quickly decides they were much better off living in Berlin - in Berlin they didn't have large groups of people in striped pyjamas spoiling their views from the window. He is told that on no account must h A heart-breaking and tragic historical fiction set during World War II. We follow the story of a nine year old boy named Bruno. Bruno loves living in his wonderful house in Berlin but he is soon told that his family need to move to a new house due to his Father's job. Once at the new house Bruno quickly decides they were much better off living in Berlin - in Berlin they didn't have large groups of people in striped pyjamas spoiling their views from the window. He is told that on no account must he go near the fence that separates his families garden from the dusty, baron land where the pyjama'd people live. But don't children often have a tendency to disobey their parents demands? Soon Bruno makes a friend, a boy who lives just over the fence. What is happening to the people in the striped pyjamas? What will become of Bruno when his family discover his secret friend beyond the fence? I really loved the subtle intensity of this book. Due to the fact that Bruno is a child there are a lot of things that he doesn't understand about his Father and the place that they have moved to. He believes he is living in a place named 'out-with' - I'm sure you can now easily guess where his family have taken up residence. The horror and tragedy of this place seen through innocent eyes is done fantastically - a real tear-jerker. ...more I decided to read this book because a friend told me that, in some respects, it reminded her of my novel, \u2018Hitler and Mars Bars\u2019. So I wanted to find out what she meant. The most obvious similarity is that the main character in each book is a German boy who is caught up in the events of the Second World War. Both books are simply written but effective and moving. Unlike my own book, Boyne\u2019s novel is completely unadorned. Yet it also captures the character\u2019s emotions and the situation he finds h I decided to read this book because a friend told me that, in some respects, it reminded her of my novel, \u2018Hitler and Mars Bars\u2019. So I wanted to find out what she meant. The most obvious similarity is that the main character in each book is a German boy who is caught up in the events of the Second World War. Both books are simply written but effective and moving. Unlike my own book, Boyne\u2019s novel is completely unadorned. Yet it also captures the character\u2019s emotions and the situation he finds himself in. Even though the reading level is elementary, the narration draws you into the story. It doesn\u2019t need to be more complex because, with few words plainly written, he makes you care what happens to the characters. Some reviewers have criticised Boyne\u2019s main character, Bruno, saying he is too na\u00efve for his age. Bruno may be an exaggeration of a sheltered, middle class child or he may be typical of a child raised in a more innocent era. But, either way, his naivety and his responses to events add poignancy to the story. His guileless viewpoint presents the concentration camp, where the story is set, in a stark manner. In my book, my main character, Erich, develops a greater awareness of the world around him than Bruno does but the story is told over a longer period. Bruno doesn\u2019t have a chance to learn and grow. Even though Bruno is young and na\u00efve, he develops a strong, caring friendship with Shmuel, a boy in the concentration camp. Friendship and human bonds are the book\u2019s central theme. Unnecessary details are pared away so that the friendship and interaction between the two boys stands out. What struck me most about The Boy In The Striped Pajamas is the powerful ending. I was not expecting the turn the story took and was shocked when I reached the end. Usually I don\u2019t like sad or disturbing endings and maybe that\u2019s why my novel ends on a hopeful note. But such a raw, horrific ending was the best one for this story. This book will make you stop and think. It is a completely different angle from which to view the Second World War and Boyne has done it well. ...more I still remember when I found this little book. I was in the airport, waiting for my flight when I decided to enter to the bookstore. The minimal cover grabs my attention and I decided to buy and read it during the flight. In my opinion, the global phenomenon that became this novel is well deserved. Despite its simple literature and its short length, the boy with the striped pajamas is a book filled with an incredible emotional charge, with a shaking and bright ending that will touch even the ha I still remember when I found this little book. I was in the airport, waiting for my flight when I decided to enter to the bookstore. The minimal cover grabs my attention and I decided to buy and read it during the flight. In my opinion, the global phenomenon that became this novel is well deserved. Despite its simple literature and its short length, the boy with the striped pajamas is a book filled with an incredible emotional charge, with a shaking and bright ending that will touch even the hardest reader. Spanish version: A\u00fan recuerdo que encontr\u00e9 este libro por casualidad en una librer\u00eda del aeropuerto en el que esperaba y lo le\u00ed durante el vuelo. El fen\u00f3meno mundial que se gener\u00f3 con esta novela es bien merecido. Pese a su simple literatura y su corta extensi\u00f3n, el ni\u00f1o con el pijama de rayas es un libro con una carga emotiva demoledora, con un final de lo m\u00e1s inesperado y brillante que acongoja hasta al m\u00e1s duro lector. ...more", "Title": "The Boy in the Striped Pajamas"},
