{"Comments": "When I first finished Patrick Rothfuss\u2019 Name Of The Wind two years ago I was a bit sad. I knew that even though the book was wonderful (<---B>and had a sequel on the horizon</---B>), that great books which capture me as that one did don\u2019t come along very often. Before Rothfuss was Harry Potter, and that was a good number of years before Rothfuss. It was five years before Potter that Pillars Of The Earth fell into my hands. So I\u2019ve been working on an average of one Utterly Captivating Read every five years or When I first finished Patrick Rothfuss\u2019 Name Of The Wind two years ago I was a bit sad. I knew that even though the book was wonderful (and had a sequel on the horizon), that great books which capture me as that one did don\u2019t come along very often. Before Rothfuss was Harry Potter, and that was a good number of years before Rothfuss. It was five years before Potter that Pillars Of The Earth fell into my hands. So I\u2019ve been working on an average of one Utterly Captivating Read every five years or so. Watching the last page of Name Of The Wind blink offscreen, I knew it was going to be another five years before I found one of those Utterly Captivating Reads. Now, that\u2019s not to say there haven\u2019t been other great books.<---F> Other five-star books</---F>. George RR Martin has written a few. So has Lois McMaster Bujold. Five-star books, through and through\u2013books that I\u2019ve read more than once out of a desire to travel into them again. But there are just some books that make five stars look like the sky on a cloudy night and beg for a constellation. Those are the Utterly Great Reads, the ones whose stories feel more real than the stories you know other people think are real. I wasn\u2019t expecting another Utterly Great Read for three more years. I wasn\u2019t due for one, you see. I certainly wasn\u2019t expecting it to be independently published, released in near secret and available on Kindle for less than the price of my usual Vente Breve Chai Latte at Starbucks. Seriously. This thing was three dollars. I swear to you I want to send twenty bucks and a bottle of Macallan to the guy who wrote it. It\u2019s that good. This is a book that should be in leather-bound hardback, smythe-sewn,<---M> gold tooling</---M>, deckle-edged paper. It\u2019s a book that costs less than a large bag of cheetos, for crying out loud! ...more I won't lie, some small but undeniable part of me came to this book hoping to find fault. It would take a better man than me to watch <---A>Anthony</---A> Ryan's barnstorming success without a twinge of envy. Sadly I have to report that this is a very good book and deserves the five stars I've given it. Ryan writes well, he brings his world and characters to life with good description. It's as a story-teller he shines though, and a good story is always the keystone of a bestseller. Schools in fantasy books are I won't lie, some small but undeniable part of me came to this book hoping to find fault. It would take a better man than me to watch Anthony Ryan's barnstorming success without a twinge of envy. Sadly I have to report that this is a very good book and deserves the five stars I've given it. Ryan writes well, he brings his world and characters to life with good description. It's as a story-teller he shines though, and a good story is always the keystone of a bestseller. Schools in fantasy books are like crack cocaine to readers. The Wizard of Earthsea, Magician, Harry Potter, The Magicians, Name of the Wind (I think), it goes on, and if not a school per se then an extended training period apprenticed to some master (The Lies of Locke Lamora, The Way of Shadows etc). <+++>Blood Song</+++> has a battle school as its central focus and we watch our protagonist progress from small boy to large young man through arduous training and a series of very dangerous tests, acquiring a group of firm friends with various talents as he goes. This is all set in a skillfully executed flashback which our protagonist narrates to a historian on his way to a duel. The tale he tells moves past the school to national and then international conspiracy, politicking, and war. Finally it brings us full circle to the historian and the duel. It's all good stuff. Don't come looking for great literature or deep themes, do come looking for a great story and a good time. I don't want to damn the book with faint praise - it deserves 5* and (& this is very high praise from me) it has heart, reminding me in many ways of David Gemmell's work. The story is very morish, I read this rather fat book in just a couple of weeks, which for me is incredibly fast. Let Vaelin's tale sink its teeth into you and you'll be cheering his victories, growling at his set-backs, and having all the feels in between in appropriate measure. I begrudgingly affirm that Ryan deserves his success and commend <+++>Blood Song</+++> to your attention. EDIT - we have the second book! My wife stole it and says it's as good as the first. ...more The supremely epic tale of the biggest Gary Stu in the entire world, filled with grammatical and punctuation errors. Fantasy and high fantasy is notorious for Gary Stus, we know that. Prime example: Harry Potter. Another example, the main character in one of my favorite HF of all time, Jorg Ancrath, by the awesome Marc Lawrence. As these examples have shown, Gary Stus are not awful. They can be amazing, the book can be immensely enjoyable. This book is not one of them. There is a way to write a Gar The supremely epic tale of the biggest Gary Stu in the entire world, filled with grammatical and punctuation errors. Fantasy and high fantasy is notorious for Gary Stus, we know that. Prime example: Harry Potter. Another example, the main character in one of my favorite HF of all time, Jorg Ancrath, by the awesome Marc Lawrence. As these examples have shown, Gary Stus are not awful. They can be amazing, the book can be immensely enjoyable. This book is not one of them. There is a way to write a Gary Stu so that a book is believable, readable. You give him a darkness. You make him flawed. You give him characteristics that are not normally enjoyed or admired. You fucking MAKE it so that we love him, despite everything he does. That's how you write good character. It is not in writing a character who is so bloody fucking perfect that he can defeat a group of men and giant dogs and shit at the age of, like...12. It is not in making him so bloody fucking awesome that he speaks with the wisdom of a 50 year old at the grand old, ripe age of 13. It is not in giving him so much fucking nobility that it would put the current Pope, Mother Theresa, Gandhi, and Tom Hiddleston to shame. This book is like Harry Potter in that we watch the main character grow, day by day by day by slow, slow, excruciating day from the time he is a young (but startlingly brilliant, introspective, and mature) child. They are also roughly the same age. 9,845,412 or so pages later (when we're halfway through the book), the character is 15 and so noble it makes me throw up a little in my mouth. He has no faults. He succeeds in every fucking thing. He impresses all his masters. He excels at almost all feats. And in those in which he does not have a natural technical skill, he is merely \"great.\" He pushes through all difficulties. He succeeds brilliantly at all his tests, all his challenges. He is the son of a brilliant, beloved battle lord. Before he is even 13, the main character's reputation for battle-hardiness and skill is known and whispered about throughout the land. Females fall for him, right and left, before his balls have even dropped and his voice has cracked. Gary-Stu-ism aside, I'm not sure if I have an older version of the book or what, but it is so filled with errors that the grammar Nazi inside me was yelling \"NEIN, NEIN!!!!!\" Commas. They're amazing. They're awesome. Use them. This book has the worst usage of commas I've ever encountered in any book. And I've read a shit ton of books in my life. Yes brother. No brother. Wait sister. That's just the examples I can think of off the top of my head. Atrocious. Absolutely fucking atrocious. You don't have to use commas. Use a period. I love periods. Ok, not THOSE periods, but you know what I mean. Whatever, just give me room to breathe within a sentence. Give me room to pause. It totally takes away the drama in a statement when the character speaks a paragraph without pause. ...more Commas matter. They are important if someone, say, an author, wishes to convey a particular meaning or concept or image through the words they use in the books they want to sell. They are important for timing, and sentence structure, and plain ol' literacy. Plus, they make me feel good, like I'm reading something worth my time, rather than some 6th grade creative writing exercise. There's a big difference between \"Let's eat, Grandpa!\" and \"Let's eat Grandpa!\" Also this: \"His father didn't reply. Commas matter. They are important if someone, say, an author, wishes to convey a particular meaning or concept or image through the words they use in the books they want to sell. They are important for timing, and sentence structure, and plain ol' literacy. Plus, they make me feel good, like I'm reading something worth my time, rather than some 6th grade creative writing exercise. There's a big difference between \"Let's eat, Grandpa!\" and \"Let's eat Grandpa!\" Also this: \"His father didn't reply. Walking over to the bell, he took his dagger from his belt and struck it with the pommel.\" He struck his belt with the pommel? Or his dagger? Oh, the bell? I'm confused. \"We storm castle walls braving arrows and fire.\" Those walls are so brave! I have been known to forgive editing errors in favor of a good story. And by all accounts, this is supposed to be a great story. But it's ruined for me now. There's no way that I can continue to read this and NOT look for errors, and the more errors I find, the more annoyed I'm going to be, so the end result would be the same: a 1 star review, regardless of how great the story may be otherwise. The only difference is that I'd have invested a great deal more of my time, and would have been all the more pissed off because of it. It's not often that I abandon a book this early. But in barely 4% of the text, I noted at least 50 errors. Most, but not all, were missing or incorrectly used commas or semicolons, with a smattering of poor formatting and sentence structure issues thrown in for good measure. That's just way, way too many for me to ignore. And, to be perfectly honest, it taints the rest of the book. For example: \"Honoured Sir.\" Aruan greeted me with a short bow. \"Honoured Sir,\" I replied formally. This little exchange is problematic for me, and given the iffy history of correct comma usage in this story, I have no way of knowing whether \"Honoured Sir\" is intended as an honorific or status title, or if they are each stating the they are honored to meet the other, as in \"Honoured, Sir.\" And the context doesn't help to figure it out. Both can be seen as equally formal greetings. This is a comma conundrum, caused by poor punctuation and/or editing, and it makes me over-analyze every line, which is quite irritating. But if you want to know the straw that broke the camel's back, the one line that was just more than I could stand, and which shut this shit down, it's this one: \"Sollis's cane snapped the air above his head.\" Whips snap (or crack) in the air. Canes whistle THROUGH the air. *sigh* I'm sure I'm probably going to get a ton of shit for this review, but I don't particularly care. I have standards, and this book didn't come anywhere close to meeting them, so I'm not going to waste my time on it anymore. Proper editing isn't optional. ...more If you like your fantasy Rothfuss or Sanderson-style this is a great book for you. It's a meaty epic fantasy with a really strong main character. I was sucked in and definitely want to read the next one! Anthony Ryan is a new fantasy author destined to make his mark on the genre. His debut novel, Blood Song, certainly has it all: great coming of age tale, compelling character, and a fast-paced plot. If his first book is any indication of things to come, then all fantasy readers should rejoice as a new master storyteller has hit the scene. Update: I just received an ARC of Anthony's third book in this series. So I just finished a re-read of this. I'm going to put this on hold at 25%. Maybe I'll come back to it at a time when I can understand the 4.51 average rating. You know - a tiny 1% of those who read this book rated it 2 stars or less. Only 7% rated it 3 stars or less. As you're probably realizing, that means 93% either \"really liked it\" or thought \"it was amazing\". I can only conclude that my brain has been hijacked by something that doesn't appreciate amazing things. But let me at least try to explain myself. I'm not a big fan of ro I'm going to put this on hold at 25%. Maybe I'll come back to it at a time when I can understand the 4.51 average rating. You know - a tiny 1% of those who read this book rated it 2 stars or less. Only 7% rated it 3 stars or less. As you're probably realizing, that means 93% either \"really liked it\" or thought \"it was amazing\". I can only conclude that my brain has been hijacked by something that doesn't appreciate amazing things. But let me at least try to explain myself. I'm not a big fan of romance. WAIT - WHAT?! That's not relevant! No, please, I have a point, I swear! I mentioned this in one of my youtube videos, but I don't like most romance books because they're so predictable. I mean, you know what's going to happen, don't you? You're in the romance section! That's a spoiler in itself. Psst, they're going to get together! Well, Blood Song is about a guy called <---C>Vaelin Al Sorna</---C>. And Al Sorna can't do anything wrong. He excels at everything he does and comes out on top in every situation. He's smart, strong, resilient, brave, self-sacrificing, a hit with the ladies and he never fails. This guy sweats faultlessness from the age of 12. So, like, I feel I already know what's going to happen with this guy. He's too perfect, too dull, to really make me concerned about what will happen to him. It's true, it's early days. Maybe I'm wrong. Maybe Al Sorna will face some realistic challenges and actually experience - *gasp* - failure. But, for now, I'm a little tired of reading about the sunshine beaming out of Al Sorna's amazing ass. ...more Reviewed by: Rabid Reads Sooooo . . . if you haven't already noticed, I've been on something of a fantasy kick of late. It's been years since I've gotten back to my roots, so now I'm playing catch-up. Anthony Ryan has been on my TBR for even longer than I'd realized . . . I have a problem . . . It's called \"one-clicking.\" You may have a similar problem . . . *snickers* Apparently I one-clicked BLOOD SONG before it got snapped up by Ace, b/c, yes, this is one of those remarkable independently publi Reviewed by: Rabid Reads Sooooo . . . if you haven't already noticed, I've been on something of a fantasy kick of late. It's been years since I've gotten back to my roots, so now I'm playing catch-up. Anthony Ryan has been on my TBR for even longer than I'd realized . . . I have a problem . . . It's called \"one-clicking.\" You may have a similar problem . . . *snickers* Apparently I one-clicked BLOOD SONG before it got snapped up by Ace, b/c, yes, this is one of those remarkable independently published books that gathered so much public interest by virtue of its own merit that it got purchased by one of the Big Five. *high fives Ryan* Anyway, the point is that despite a handful of grammatical errors in my own unedited version of the book, it was fantastic. The story begins as a historian of an empire is taking custody of an enemy nation's war champion . . . A war champion who had been imprisoned for years . . . A war champion who was being paroled to fight to the death for the release of a woman from the enemy nation . . . A woman who the war champion had widowed himself by killing the heir of the emperor . . . a man who was the historian's best friend . . . Awk ward. But as much as Historian despises this man, this Hope Killer , he cannot help but be intrigued by him. He watches as the governor of the very city War Champion seized during the war comes the dock, bringing War Champion his sword that had been given into Governor's care. He watches as Governor tries to encourage War Champion about his upcoming (doomed to fail) duel: maybe he'll win, maybe this is the first step in his journey home . . . Who is this War Champion that he should win the respect and friendship of a man whose city he took by force? Vaelin Al Sorna, that's who. And Historian, being a chronicler of history, finds that he cannot resist the urge to record a firsthand account of the war and the events leading up to the invasion from one who would know the enemy's---King Janus of the Unified Realm---mind, when War Champion offers to tell his story during their voyage (to the PIRATE NATION where the duel is to take place). From there we go backward. We learn of Vaelin's childhood, how his father left him at the gates of the Sixth Order, the only Order of warriors, and thus the only trained fighters who are not subject to the King's commands: \"You fight,\" Vaelin told the Aspect, the violence and the blood making his heart hammer in his chest. \"Yes.\" The Aspect halted and looked down at him. \"We fight. We kill. We storm castle walls braving arrows and fire. We stand against the charge of horse and lance. We cut our way through the hedge of pike and spear to claim the standard of our enemy. The Sixth Order fights, but what does it fight for?\" \"For the realm.\" For the realm, and for the Faith. The Sixth Order is a highly trained, highly efficient, and highly deadly group of paladins (<------warrior priests). We learn of the bonds of brotherhood forged during their rigorous, often deadly training. Of the eleven boys who share quarters, only five live to become Brothers, Vaelin their acknowledged leader. We learn of the Dark, a nebulous force that manifests itself in unnatural abilities and talents, and we learn of the king of a nation hellbent on legislating morality with an iron fist. BLOOD SONG is a tale filled with suffering and injustice, but it's also a tale of friendship and loyalty and perseverance, and woven throughout are hints of a Darkness gathering, while flaws in the Realm's belief system are slowly but steadily revealed. In short, it's compelling. Sometimes bleak, sometimes hopeful, always determined, BLOOD SONG grabbed me by the horns and didn't let go until this chapter of the story was complete, and even then it was only for as long as it took me to one-click the next book. Highly recommended. My other reviews for this series: Tower Lord (Raven's Shadow, #2) by Anthony Ryan ...more Re-read before Queen of Fire is released. Original Review September 2014 4.5 Stars This Series is so hard to review...So Many Great Things Happened....Just Read It. Bloodsong is the journey of a boy into becoming a man with enough power to change the world. The majority of this books focuses on the bond built between brothers, bonds that can\u2019t be broken no matter what you have done. It is hard to capture Bloodsong accurately in a review because it has a fully built world, characters and plot. Small Re-read before Queen of Fire is released. Original Review September 2014 4.5 Stars This Series is so hard to review...So Many Great Things Happened....Just Read It. Bloodsong is the journey of a boy into becoming a man with enough power to change the world. The majority of this books focuses on the bond built between brothers, bonds that can\u2019t be broken no matter what you have done. It is hard to capture Bloodsong accurately in a review because it has a fully built world, characters and plot. Small mysteries and journeys lead to larger ones. The choices that Vaelin makes throughout his life are not all correct. He makes mistakes and sacrifices along the way and there were enough twists and turns that I was kept guessing the entire book. Vaelin is the son of a famous Warrior and healer. After the death of his mother Vaelin is taken to train with the Order where he gives up all ties to his family and land to become a brother of the 6th order and protector of the faith. The Aspect\u2019s gaze was impassive but Vaelin knew he could read every thought in his boy\u2019s head. He wondered later how many boys, dragged or tricked there by treacherous fathers, did run away, and if so, if they ever regretted it. Loyalty is our strength. \u201cI wish to come in, please,\u201d he told the Aspect. There were tears in his eyes but he blinked them away. \u201cI wish to learn many things.\u201d Vaelin\u2019s journey in the order is a difficult one they are training warriors and he is an apt pupil, living through all the trails along the way. Never once did I question the man that Vaelin grew up to be because I journeyed through those years with him when he built bonds with his brothers in the Order and learned that the reasons he was brought to them might not be everything he thought they were. As every new layer is peeled away we see that maybe there is something dark lurking and waiting in the shadows as Vaelin has a destiny and there are some that do not want to see him make his way to it. Beral Shak Ur\u2026\u201dwhy do you call me that? I have a name of my own.\u201d \u201cMen such as yourself tend to collect names like trophies. Not all the names you\u2019ll earn will be so kind.\u201d There are so many things I liked about this story. First, it is told from the Present looking back on the past for most of it and as Vaelin tells his story you can\u2019t wait to find out what happened to put him in the position he is in in the present. The narration escalated the intrigue over certain events by knowing the part of the end result. Second the world building is completely full and well-rounded with lands, religions, politics and so many meshed up cultures that it is hard not to get too caught up in all the details of it. The extra stories and lore all fit in and weave together so well. Third, there is a slight magic in tale, but I never found it overdone. There is a gradual realization of it instead of an abrupt \u201cyou have power and will rule the world muh-HA-Ha-ha-hA\u201d. I really liked the hint of magic in the land and the promise of finding out more in later books. Finally, I loved the relationships that Vaelin had with those around him. The bonds between the brothers, the girl he loved and the very dangerous game he played with the King made him an extraordinarily easy character to like. He was never pompous or overconfident but made his choices and went on with them. I grew to really care for the characters in this world. Some of the scenes of war are a little horrific, but I think they should be. The story was complex, interesting and had enough twists and turns to keep you guessing. I strongly recommend this to any Fantasy lover. ...more Blood Song is, perhaps, the greatest self-published story i have read in the past five years. To begin with, it features one of my two favorite fantasy schemes. A young protagonist apprentices himself to a magic military/faith monastery, and proceeds to become the greatest mage fighter the world has ever seen. But the general plot arc isn't the reason of this success. Everything else is. Anthony's debut is an addictive page-turner with compelling writing, interesting plots and sub-plots, masterful Blood Song is, perhaps, the greatest self-published story i have read in the past five years. To begin with, it features one of my two favorite fantasy schemes. A young protagonist apprentices himself to a magic military/faith monastery, and proceeds to become the greatest mage fighter the world has ever seen. But the general plot arc isn't the reason of this success. Everything else is. Anthony's debut is an addictive page-turner with compelling writing, interesting plots and sub-plots, masterfully crafted dialogues and wonderfully built atmosphere, forcing you not to come up for breath until you reach the epilogue. Anthony Ryan rides a thin line between prose and poetry, and does so, successfully as well. \"Honour is just a word. You can\u2019t eat it or drink it and yet everywhere I go men talk of it endlessly, and they all tell a different tale of what it actually means. For the Alpirans it\u2019s all about duty, the Renfaelins think it\u2019s the same as courage. In these islands it appears it means killing a son for a crime committed by his father then slaughtering a helpless man when the pantomime fails to go to plan.\" Blood Song starts with a blank slate. Every turn the plot takes is full of thrilling surprises, building a lot of tension and anticipation for the finale, and although we already know Vaelin survived the ordeals and trials that got in his way, we have no idea how the story is going to end. The characters are compelling, and the magic system is kept simple and easy to understand. The real gem of this story though is the pace. Fast at the beginning, steady at the core of the story, and slowly reversed at the epilogue. All in all, Blood Song is the perfect combination of an amazing plot, a perfectly built world, and a compelling storytelling from a great author.If you have yet to read it, a trip to the local bookstore is what you have to make. You can find more of my reviews on http://booknest.eu ...more Okay, \"first off\" I know some don't care for long reviews and sort of skip through just interested in the \"bottom line\" so to speak. I have a few things to say, but for you who want things boiled down to the basics...in my opinion, that's \"In My Opinion\" this is an excellent, even an exceptional book. I have moved it directly on to my favorites shelf. The only negative I have here is that the next volume isn't due out till July 2014. God willing and I'm still alive, healthy and solvent I plan to Okay, \"first off\" I know some don't care for long reviews and sort of skip through just interested in the \"bottom line\" so to speak. I have a few things to say, but for you who want things boiled down to the basics...in my opinion, that's \"In My Opinion\" this is an excellent, even an exceptional book. I have moved it directly on to my favorites shelf. The only negative I have here is that the next volume isn't due out till July 2014. God willing and I'm still alive, healthy and solvent I plan to snap it up as soon as it's out. (Also God willing my dwindling time lasts through the entirety of this series). Clear? This seems to me a great book. That paragraph should help at least two groups of people. First those who find that more often than not they agree with my taste in books, second those who find that, \"more often than not\" they \"disagree\" with my taste in books. Now, for everybody else who'd like me to say a little about the book, here we go. \"Usually\" a sure way to cause me to steer clear of a book is to call it a, \"coming of age story\". \"Usually\" these turn out to be emotionally soaked tomes of the struggles a youth has as he/she/it struggles into adulthood with it's pain and of course it's loves. But now and then there is a different take on any \"type\" of book. This one is definitely a \"coming of age story\". The book opens with a historian, scribe recording the story of The Hope Killer. The Hope was the heir to the Emperor's throne and the people loved him. He was slain by the North-man they call Hope Slayer, among other names. As The Hope Slayer begins to relate his story to our historian, we get the events told in flashback. I'm sure some will compare this to Rothfuss' King Killer Chronicle because it's told in the, \"present vs. past\" style of story telling. If I compared them I'd say then that this is what that series should be. Vaelin Al Sorna's mother has been dead for a while and life with his father, the King's Battle Lord hasn't been easy. Really it's just been, distant as he doesn't really know his father. Then one day his father has him pack a very little and takes him to a strange place, a barred guarded gate. Vaelin has been, \"given to\" the Sixth Order\", soldiers who are defenders of, \"The Faith\". We will follow Vaelin Al Sorna and his Brothers as they grow in the Order. They will receive not so gentle training and become full Brothers of the Order or fail and be turned out with some coin or die in one of the tests. I won't even try for a synopsis as this is a long and nicely involved book and it's only flaw is that it ends. It's a long book yes, but I remained involved throughout. I took my time and savored this book and it's story. I repeat, I don't think I can recommend this one too highly. By the way, yes the book revolves a great deal around the \"fantasy religions\" of this world. None really resemble in detail Christianity, Shintoism etc. There are some aspects of these and other actual religions but none I think should offend anyone. I note this as I am a Christian and so are some of my friends here. I didn't find myself offended or subverted into some other form of belief and I don't think anyone else will be. So, back to the topic at hand I think this book will be one I'll try to reread before the next volume comes out. Of course now I'm having trouble finding a book to read as I liked this one so much...but there you go. A High 5 Stars and my highest recommendation. Enjoy. ...more First re-read finished. Rating stays the same. Buddy re-read/read with a bunch of lovely friends at Sanctum of Fantasy group before book #3 comes out in the beginning of July. Want to join? :) We're starting on Monday, June 15th. Original Review, 31 August, 2014 I'm surprised this is a debut novel. Believe the hype! Oh yes, the book has its flaws but I can't quite put my finger on them and they are certainly not enough to even make me knock off a half star down to 4.5 for the rating. It's full 5! First re-read finished. Rating stays the same. Buddy re-read/read with a bunch of lovely friends at Sanctum of Fantasy group before book #3 comes out in the beginning of July. Want to join? :) We're starting on Monday, June 15th. Original Review, 31 August, 2014 I'm surprised this is a debut novel. Believe the hype! Oh yes, the book has its flaws but I can't quite put my finger on them and they are certainly not enough to even make me knock off a half star down to 4.5 for the rating. It's full 5! What makes the book unputdownable is the scale and the intensity of the story. More Vaelin Al Sorna, please! Up to book #2. Full review to come eventually. ...more This is, without a doubt, my favourite book of the year so far. This is High Fantasy that is contemporary while still hitting a sweet spot for me with the mix of magic and battle. The story was engaging, the plot was well paced, the protagonist was flawed but likeable, the prose was polished. I can't believe this a debut novel. I don't place too much faith in goodreads rating system, but when we are approaching 15000 ratings with an average of 4.56 as of today - that says something about the qual This is, without a doubt, my favourite book of the year so far. This is High Fantasy that is contemporary while still hitting a sweet spot for me with the mix of magic and battle. The story was engaging, the plot was well paced, the protagonist was flawed but likeable, the prose was polished. I can't believe this a debut novel. I don't place too much faith in goodreads rating system, but when we are approaching 15000 ratings with an average of 4.56 as of today - that says something about the quality of this book. \u201cI\u2019ll fight but I won\u2019t murder. His boyhood resolve coming back to him, the promise he had made to himself after saving them in the wild. I\u2019ll kill men who face me in battle but I won\u2019t take the sword to innocents. It felt so hollow now, so na\u00efve.\u201d Many before me have commented on how this book has some striking, (though arguably superficial), similarities to The Name of the Wind by Patrick Rothfuss (review) - so I think I can best talk about this book by contrasting the two. If you haven't read The Name of the Wind don't fret - even having read that book I couldn't tell you what it was about in less than three days anyway. Similarities 1. Both stories written from a single POV. 2. Both stories employ a framing device whereby a Chronicler writes down the life story as recounted to them by the hero. 3. Both stories are about the coming of age and rise to badassdom of a legend. Differences 1. Kvothe's story in NotW is told in the first person while Vaelin's story (our protagonist) is told in the third person 2. In Blood Song the framing device is done setting up in the Prologue and we are straight into the main story in Chapter one. In The Name of the Wind , the Chronicler takes a veeeery long time to even show up to begin Kvothe's story. 3. In Blood Song , it seems clear that the framing device will end with this book as the events catch up to Vaelin's time with the Chronicler - while in The Name of the Wind the framing device continues into book two and seems will continue into book 3. 4. This book, Vaelin arrives at the religious order where he begins his warrior/martial training by Chapter One. Kvothe arrives at the university to learn magic after a loooong looong time. 5. Kvothe in The Name of the Wind is/becomes the best at most everything he puts his hand to. This book, Vaelin becomes the best swordsman in the order. He is not the best at other things \u201cVaelin knew himself to be the best swordsman among them. Dentos was master of the bow, Barkus unarmed combat, Nortah the finest rider and Caenis knew the wild like a wolf, but the sword was his.\u201d As I said, the similarities are superficial, making the differences more obvious. The other difference is that The Name of the Wind is to my mind superior storytelling as compared to Blood Song which I feel is a better story. The Name of the Wind has superior immersion, as compared to Blood Song which has an actual plot and a perfectly paced one for my liking. So which of the two books do I prefer? For me The Name of the Wind still edges this one out because I could sit and listen to that all day long and when I'm finished I could start over right away - while with this book, though the story is better, and I'm going straight onto the second book in the series, now I've read and know the story, I don't feel a pressing need to read it again - that will undoubtedly change when the final book comes out. For those who were unimpressed with The Name of the Wind , for those who despised the all too perfect Kvothe, Blood Song is most definitely the book for you. This book is everything you wished NotW to be but wasn't. All the complaints you made about Kvothe are addressed in Vaelin. Kvothe is a Clayton's Vaelin - or rather, Vaelin is a better Kvothe. The audio narration by Steven Brand was very good, though his quiet spoken voice was difficult to hear if there was any background noise. I loved this story from start to finish and was loathe to hit the pause button on the Audible app when inconvenient interruptions arose - like sleep and going to the toilet. This one gets an easy... 5 stars ...more Trilogy Review: I thoroughly enjoyed the Raven\u2019s Shadow Trilogy, especially the first book, Blood Song. It was easily a 5 star read and one of the best fantasies I\u2019ve read since Sanderson\u2019s Stormlight Archives. It focused on one character \u2013 Vaelin, and his coming of age story. Taking place in a school (one of my favorite settings) it offered a combative learning environment that honestly reminded me of Harry Potter adventures meets the medieval, gritty reality of Game of Thrones. The camaraderie Trilogy Review: I thoroughly enjoyed the Raven\u2019s Shadow Trilogy, especially the first book, Blood Song. It was easily a 5 star read and one of the best fantasies I\u2019ve read since Sanderson\u2019s Stormlight Archives. It focused on one character \u2013 Vaelin, and his coming of age story. Taking place in a school (one of my favorite settings) it offered a combative learning environment that honestly reminded me of Harry Potter adventures meets the medieval, gritty reality of Game of Thrones. The camaraderie that Vaelin formed with his fellow \u201cbrothers\u201d was an excellent dynamic, one which I wish had carried through the rest of the trilogy. After finishing the first book (and fangirling about it for a few days) I quickly became aware that people weren\u2019t loving the second and third books nearly as much. I have a few theories as to why. The sequels are very different from the first one. What an author puts forth in initially is usually a promise to the reader of what\u2019s to come and readers expect at least a bit of consistency of storytelling (which Ryan failed to deliver because his tale took off in a completely different direction). His story also went from a single point of view to multiple, bouncing around in a very Game of Thrones manner. I actually liked the different perspectives, each one adding a missing piece to the puzzle and written as well as Vaelin. Ironically, though, the passages involving Vaelin, the initial hero of the saga, became the least interesting\u2026 odd, right? The overall story arc remained the same, but everything built up in the first book got swept under the rug in favor of these other storylines. While I understand how this could lead to a lot of disappointment, I admit I enjoyed Tower Lord (book 2) almost as much is the first book. Heck, I even liked about 80% of Queen of Fire (book 3) save one chunk near the end where I was incredibly bored and found it difficult to get through\u2026 once I did though, I liked the ending. Overall, even though my personal experience with the series differs from the majority, I still think the consensus is that Blood Song is worth reading even if you don\u2019t plan to continue on. Via The Obsessive Bookseller at www.nikihawkes.com ...more Once in a while a book comes out of nowhere and blows me away; last year it was the indie sf Dancing with Eternity, this year it's Blood Song, a traditional fantasy in many ways but with a narrative pull that is just unbelievable - last time I read a fantasy debut with this pull, it was in 2007 when Name of the Wind appeared and while there are notable differences in content, with this one much more traditional than Rothfuss' series, there are a few similarities there too - while getting a lot o Once in a while a book comes out of nowhere and blows me away; last year it was the indie sf Dancing with Eternity, this year it's Blood Song, a traditional fantasy in many ways but with a narrative pull that is just unbelievable - last time I read a fantasy debut with this pull, it was in 2007 when Name of the Wind appeared and while there are notable differences in content, with this one much more traditional than Rothfuss' series, there are a few similarities there too - while getting a lot of other things right from tone, to structure, to general world building that has both space and extendability so you do not feel the usual \"sandbox, everything local is known\" common to many secondary world fantasies today. I plan a full review for next week and I am rereading the book also as I want to stay in its universe more, while quite a few early details are better appreciated on a second or later reading. I will only note that while starting as an indie novel/series, Raven's Shadow has been bought by Penguin Books (Ace/Roc) and will be published in print too starting next year most likely with Blood Song, and the author is working hard at the sequel (Tower Lord) which may or may not see an indie publication or just be first published by Penguin. Blood Song ends at a good point and at the equivalent of ~600 pages offers a complete reading experience, so even if Tower Lord does not come out until say 2014 assuming the usual traditional publishing time frames, get it now and read it, whether you are a series completist or someone like myself who loves open series... Full FBC Review (with Mihir) at the link below: http://fantasybookcritic.blogspot.com... ...more 4.5 Blood song by Anthony Ryan is a great new work of epic fantasy. It was released independently a few years ago and since then has built up a huge amount of buzz, made all the more impressive by it's lack of support. Because of this background I really wanted to like this book. Conveniently the complex characters and intriguing plot made liking it easy. Also the gratuitous violence. FTW. The main character of this book is Vaelin Al Sorna who at the beginning of the story we see as a captive on h 4.5 Blood song by Anthony Ryan is a great new work of epic fantasy. It was released independently a few years ago and since then has built up a huge amount of buzz, made all the more impressive by it's lack of support. Because of this background I really wanted to like this book. Conveniently the complex characters and intriguing plot made liking it easy. Also the gratuitous violence. FTW. The main character of this book is Vaelin Al Sorna who at the beginning of the story we see as a captive on his way to a duel which will likely end in his death. His captors fear and revile him as 'Hope killer'. Vaelin narrates his life story to his historian and jailor who gradually becomes more and more enthralled. His story starts when he is 10, abandoned at the door of the training ground of the 6th order, Secretive and deadly warrior priests. From here we chart his journey from abandoned boy to legendary hero. Vaelin dominates this book both in his POV chapters and in the few chapters from his biographer. Because of this the book is largely dependant on how sympathetic and interesting he is. I found Vaelin to be a really cool and likable character. He is pretty much a straightforward fantasy protagonist albeit with a few shades of moral ambiguity thrown in. One of my favourite aspects about war films or anything that deals with people who regularly operate in violent, dangerous situations is the camaraderie that develops between these guys. As a result Vaelin's interactions with his 'brothers' were easily some of my favourite parts of this book. I also liked how we saw Vaelin's skills gradually improve over long years of intense training rather than miraculously appear over a short period of time as sometimes happens in fantasy. Instead of a quickly glossed over Rocky-style training montage Ryan masterfully brings to life the exhausting, painful process that turns a young boy into a deadly warrior. On the downside I never really felt that Vaelin's voice as a character developed from when he was 10 to in his mid 20's. Even as a kid Vaelin sounded like an adult. I also thought it was kind of weird that throughout the series Vaelin hardly acknowledges the fact that as a warrior-priest he is apparently banned from having sex. I mean loads of the plot occurs while he is a teenager and a young man and yet he only ever mentions sex in passing, usually while with a beautiful woman. You'd think that as a testosterone fuelled killing machine banned from sex his interactions with women would be limited to blurting out 'boobies!' at the start of every conversation. The cast of character's is dominated by Vaelin's brothers. Unlike Vaelin many of them (especially Nortah) underwent a good bit of character development. I especially liked the way they begin to manifest combat skills that compliment Vaelin's. Instead of always being best at everything Vaelin is shown to excel as a swordsman and leader while his friends are better in other ways. The way their backstories are slowly revealed is pretty cool as well. Sister Sherin played an important role as Vaelin's love interest and the contrast between healing and killing it produced was interesting. Another standout was King Janus. Despite being a ruthless, manipulative, war-mongering wanker he is also shown to be a great king. This ambiguity made him a really interesting antagonist. I really hope he isn't revealed to be some pawn of the forces of evil as this would turn him into a completely stereotypical evil king rather than an illustration of the necessary evils required to rule a kingdom in a realistic setting. (view spoiler) [ Edit after reading book 2: In the sequel it's implied he was an unwitting pawn of the forces of evil all along and a lot of the moral ambiguity that made him great in this book was undermined, which was really disappointing. I'm still holding out hope he'll be redeemed somewhat in book 3 though (hide spoiler) ] . The plot was for the most part interesting and well written. Vaelin's brutal training was engaging and showed us how he developed into a deadly warrior and instigated much of his character growth and personal contemplation, however I thought the extra-curricular adventures he got into at every opportunity seemed kind of forced. I mean over 5 years he leaves the academy like 3 times and each time he meets important characters and/or gets involved in events that have a profound effect on his outlook and shape world politics. Also for a novel that emphasises war and violence I thought the sword-fights and battles were diasappointing. Every fight Vaelin gets in he wins quickly and easily. (view spoiler) [ this made his fight in the arena with the 'deadly' former 6th order brother kind of ridiculous as he was defeated as quickly as a random rapist and murderer and produced something of an anti-climactic ending with the shield. (hide spoiler) ] The hints of dark forces at work were really cool and added an intriguing sense of mystery. I also liked how the book dealt with both the physical and psychological horrors of war in an intelligent and uncompromising way without being preachy. Perhaps my favourite plot point in this whole book was the invasion of the Alpiran empire. This was a really cool subversion of a typical fantasy storyline with the 'good guy' nation launching an unprovoked war of conquest against a peaceful neighbour. Janus' motivations, which he revealed to Vaelin to try and persuade him to take part in the war, added a further layer of political and moral complexity that made the situation even more compelling. (view spoiler) [ I'm really stingy with my 5 star rating but this book would definitely have gotten one... if it wasn't for the Barkus reveal at the end. Essentially it turns out that the dark lord of all evil has been controlling one of Vaelin's closest friends pretty much all along. They've fought, eaten, slept and hung out together pretty much 24/7 for about 15 years by this point and yet in all this time no one has noticed something is off with Barkus and he hasn't had the opportunity to kill or bodysnatch(which is apparently super easy) Vaelin who is seemingly going to be the champion of goodness. In addition to being a pretty big plot hole this reveal destroyed the 'band of brothers' relationship between Vaelin and his friends that I loved so much in this book. I really wanted to give this book 5 stars but that reveal left a sour taste, especially about one of my favourite aspects of this book, so I ultimately only gave it 4. Edit after reading book 2: Nothing new was really added about this in book 2, which was disappointing. (hide spoiler) ] Overall this was an exciting, well-paced debut by a really promising author. I'm definitely looking forward to reading more of his work. ...more I had heard a lot of good things about this series but I felt that I went into it thinking it was going to be a three star at best I believe because it has been compared to Name of the Wind, a book that I enjoyed that was subsequently ruined by its sequel The Wise Man's Fear. Blood Song is told in a similar manner. The story is told from the perspective of the main character Vaelin Al Sorna after the events have occurred. He is telling his story to a scribe who has heard the stories of the Hopeki I had heard a lot of good things about this series but I felt that I went into it thinking it was going to be a three star at best I believe because it has been compared to Name of the Wind, a book that I enjoyed that was subsequently ruined by its sequel The Wise Man's Fear. Blood Song is told in a similar manner. The story is told from the perspective of the main character Vaelin Al Sorna after the events have occurred. He is telling his story to a scribe who has heard the stories of the Hopekiller as he is known, but they are exaggerated. The events start with Vaelin's placement in the Sixth Order by his father, where he learns to become a warrior for the Faith. Name of the Wind is also told from the point of view of the main character to other characters, and begins with his schooling life. But I feel like that is where the similarities end thankfully. Rather than being great at everything (like Kvothe) Vaelin admits his weaknesses, and his faults. He feels a lot of guilt about his actions in the heat of battle. This often comes off as whiny, but in this case I felt it was fairly well done. He was likable enough as a character, although there wasn't a whole lot unique about him. However, the world building and the story itself more than made up for the character flaws. The author is new to the fantasy genre, and I'm excited to see where he can go. ...more Finally! A book that lives up to the hype. Blood Song is the best debut epic fantasy I've read since The Name of the Wind was published in 2007. It had everything one could want in a book. Action, mystery, romance, intrigue, and plenty of surprises. The world building was good, the plot complex, and the various characters were full of depth and personality. This was a thoroughly exciting and enjoyable read. Anthony Ryan might just be making a case to join my quartet of all time fantasy favorites Finally! A book that lives up to the hype. Blood Song is the best debut epic fantasy I've read since The Name of the Wind was published in 2007. It had everything one could want in a book. Action, mystery, romance, intrigue, and plenty of surprises. The world building was good, the plot complex, and the various characters were full of depth and personality. This was a thoroughly exciting and enjoyable read. Anthony Ryan might just be making a case to join my quartet of all time fantasy favorites. High praise considering that list is Martin, Rothfuss, Lynch, and Sanderson. Rating:5 stars! Audio Note: Steven Brand was an adequate narrator. Competent but nothing special. Re-read 1/7/15 - Almost as good the second time around! ...more Almost everyone has high praise for this book, it's often cited as a favourite. It is also often compared to In the Name of the Wind, which I didn't like. I didn't particularly take to Blood Song although it seemed well written. I actually found it a bit slow and boring. The whole book is 624 pages long but honestly it felt like 1000. I read for an hour and realized after that I just read merely 50 pages. I've read way longer books than this (The Stand, 1400+ pages) and that book felt just as long as this. It's honestly the format and style of the novel. The words are smaller than usual and the spacing makes it look like a can of sardines. Also there aren't much breaks between sentences so it's basically a whole page with one freakin' long paragraph. I hate frea The whole book is 624 pages long but honestly it felt like 1000. I read for an hour and realized after that I just read merely 50 pages. I've read way longer books than this (The Stand, 1400+ pages) and that book felt just as long as this. It's honestly the format and style of the novel. The words are smaller than usual and the spacing makes it look like a can of sardines. Also there aren't much breaks between sentences so it's basically a whole page with one freakin' long paragraph. I hate freakin' long paragraphs because I tend to lose interest and get distracted. No matter how interesting your story is, as long as you have paragraphs as long as the great wall of China, I'm going to get distracted. While the format of the novel was a slight issue to me, it didn't completely hinder my enjoyment of the novel, and let's not get started on the grammar issue since everyone seems to have tackled on that issue already. What it did help accomplish though was that I read this for almost a month. Just one book, for almost a month. Even despite my busy schedule I could read a book in a week or two, and the size of this isn't really a valid excuse. Blame the format, not the plot. What really stands out for me is the fact that this is a coming-of-age/Fantasy novel. I like it when I read about the journey of a young kid turning into an adult, especially in a Fantasy setting. While the length of the novel is daunting, I can assure you that it really helps with the character development. It's the strongest asset of this novel. The plot can have second place this time. The transition of Vaelin from a weak lad to a powerful soldier is truly astonishing. It was proficiently done and the other characters didn't get neglected. (view spoiler) [ Well except for Barkus. I really hated what the author did. It diminished all the character development done for him. (hide spoiler) ] If we're talking about how interesting the characters are and potentially be main characters, then this can compare to A Song of Ice and Fire. I'm that interested and invested in the series. The plot is quite similar to some Fantasy novels I've read, or at least the backbone of the plot is. It's not a big deal because all the side plots are terrific and the ending has a bit of a surprise. I should call this a page turner, but the long-ass paragraphs is making me think otherwise. Overall though, the plot is really good and more people should read this novel. I will not compare this to The Name of the Wind because I didn't enjoy that book. I know some of the aspects are similar, but in my opinion this is way superior. I tried to read this novel twice before and failed both times, stopping at around page 50 because I got bored with it and the size intimidated me. This time though I told myself that if I don't read it now, I'll probably end up putting it off forever. Thankfully I'm back on my Fantasy craze and read it. This is clearly not a perfect novel, but that doesn't mean that it isn't great. I've read better Fantasy novels and unfortunately the more you read of a certain genre, the more critical you become when rating and evaluating the novel. If I read this before The First Law Trilogy, A Song of Ice and Fire, The Demon Cycle, etc, then I might have enjoyed this way better and given it a 5-star rating. Sadly right now the best I can do without being biased is giving it a 4.5, but sadly rounded down. While the characters here will clearly leave a mark, that certain aspect isn't enough to make me give it the 5-star rating. I encountered too many flaws and some cannot be overlooked. I will be honest and say that I might not be rereading this in the future, because I don't want to spend another 2 weeks or more reading this again. I heard that the next two books are garbage compared to this, but hopefully I'd have a different opinion. This is one of those books that defies the majority of my goodreads friends at least. I've read mixed reviews of this and it's a good thing that I'm part of the few who really enjoyed this. Highly recommended for Fantasy aficionados and those who enjoy a good coming of age story. ...more Ye Gods that was a ride and a half. I must say, given that I usually have at least 3 books on the go at any one time, it is very rare for me to completely ignore all else and just plough through one. I like being able to have a change whilst reading, but I have to say, once I was into Blood Song, that was it. I listened to this on audio in the car, on the tread mill, sitting on a plane for 2 hours, stuck in a Sydney traffic jam for 3 hours (first traffic jam that i didn't get frustrated with), o Ye Gods that was a ride and a half. I must say, given that I usually have at least 3 books on the go at any one time, it is very rare for me to completely ignore all else and just plough through one. I like being able to have a change whilst reading, but I have to say, once I was into Blood Song, that was it. I listened to this on audio in the car, on the tread mill, sitting on a plane for 2 hours, stuck in a Sydney traffic jam for 3 hours (first traffic jam that i didn't get frustrated with), ordering coffee, drinking said coffee and I even admit to slipping the headphones in whilst visiting the toilet. Probably just crossed that 'too much information line'. So what makes Blood Song unputdownable? Characters? Action? world building? plot? magic system? No, none of them, it is the sheer intensity of the story. There is no respite, it just keeps going at you the whole time. There is no rest, no ad break for a toilet stop (as I have already pointed out). It is like the last two minutes of a close footy match, or a 2 runs down with bases loaded, bottom of the ninth 2 and 3 call. There never seems a good time to stop the story and come back to it. I find that unusual in almost all of the books I read. What makes this story unusual is that the characters are ok, there is some development, but there is no Logan Ninefingers or Iskareal Pust or even a brother Jorge character depth. The plot is straight forward, no hidden twists or surprises. The world is fantasy generic and the magic is....... I have no idea what the magic is, I think the author forgot to explain that bit, maybe in the next book. It is the sheer pace of the story that makes me give this 5 stars. I cannot wait to read the next book, but had to put something in between as I have a long haul flight coming up and I fancy my chances of 8 hours of straight audio for book 2. Immigration will be looking at a deer in headlights look. I am definitely recommending this one. Anyone who has enjoyed First Law, Riyria, Way of Kings, Locke Lamora, Prince of Thorns, Shattered Crown, Kingkiller etc will enjoy this. In writing that list of books above, it makes me realise just how many great great authors we are blessed with at the moment eh? It is a great time to be a fan of fantasy (especially those of us who enjoy are slightly darker edge to fantasy) ...more Executive Summary: I really loved this book, and I highly recommend it. Audio book: I'm a little torn on the narration. Steven Brand is a pretty good narrator. He does accents and inflections to really add something to the story. However, he's so DAMN QUIET. It seemed like he was whispering half the time. I'm not sure if it's him or simply the quality of the production, but it seems like it's just the way he reads. I listen to audiobooks on my phone. Sometimes with headphones, sometimes with the s Executive Summary: I really loved this book, and I highly recommend it. Audio book: I'm a little torn on the narration. Steven Brand is a pretty good narrator. He does accents and inflections to really add something to the story. However, he's so DAMN QUIET. It seemed like he was whispering half the time. I'm not sure if it's him or simply the quality of the production, but it seems like it's just the way he reads. I listen to audiobooks on my phone. Sometimes with headphones, sometimes with the speaker, sometimes plugged into my car. I find audiobooks to be too quiet in general, but this was a real struggle in places. To me he's more of the type of person I'd love to listen to tell me a story around a campfire than over an audiobook. Yet he's still better than a lot of readers out there and I'll likely continue going the audiobook route with this series despite the volume issue. Full Review Writing reviews for books I love goes one of two ways: They either come gushing out of me because I'm so excited to share my love with everyone, or I struggle to put my thoughts into words, afraid of not doing the book justice. I worry this will be more of the latter than the former. I generally don't give out 5 star ratings. I like to save them for books I really love so it's a sign that \"hey Rob must have really liked this one\". I don't exactly have a metric for what pushes a 4/4.5 star book to 5 star rating. It just sort of by feel. The easiest way for me to quantify it though is that it's a book that I hate to stop and can't wait to pick up again. This book was easily that. It was also an easy add to my favorites shelf. This book didn't grab me immediately, but pretty close. Once it did it never let go. It's hard to say why I loved it so much. It's a typical chosen one story. It's also got a bit of the school trope to it, though that's only part of the book. At first it reminds me a lot of The Name of the Wind . Our main protagonist is an infamous man whose collected numerous names over the years, and is recounting his life story to a chronicler as a flashback, with occasional interludes back to present day. Sound Familiar? However this basic structure is really where the similarity ends for me. Vaelin is a paladin (or maybe warrior monk?), where Kvothe is a bard (at least in my mind). He's far from perfect, and was instantly more likable to me. I think what really hooked me in the story is the mystery and lore. There is a lot to discover in both the history of the Order that Vaelin is now a member, but also surrounding magic, regarded with superstition, anger and fear and referred to by most as \"The Dark\". The magic is sort of not that prevalent for most of the book, nor all that well explained, but I enjoyed how Mr. Ryan incorporated it into the story. The other thing I really enjoyed is all the politics and religion. Religion and politics are tightly coupled and \"The Faith\" of the Order is embedded in the rule of the Unified Realm. Like the real world arguments over religion and politics lead to conflict and war. King Janus is determined to leave a legacy for his son, and will use Vaelin how he sees fit to accomplish it. The cast of characters felt well developed and balanced. Coming from different backgrounds and parts of the realm, Vaelin and his brothers make for an interesting group, each excelling at certain skills honed through training rather than just excelling at EVERYTHING. We also have a few strong female characters, although they don't really take center stage in this book. Overall I think this book just put a lot of my favorites parts of fantasy tropes together in a way that just hits my buttons in the right way and made it a great read for me. The writing seems really polished for a first novel. I'm sure there are things that can be picked apart about the story or the writing, but I just don't want to hear them. I will end my ramblings hoping that I have I have convinced you to check out this series. I had people telling me over a year ago to pick this book up, and I wish I had listened. It took getting a review copy of Tower Lord to finally pick it up and I've eagerly jumped right into that book. You made it through my ramblings? Why are you still reading this review? You should be reading the book instead. Seriously. Go now. ...more Re-read: July 2015 5 Stars Even better than the first time. ------------------------- 4.5 Stars The song is me, my blood, my need, my hunt. Blood Song is the promise of a seriously kick-ass trilogy. Rich storytelling, beautiful prose, fast paced, amazing character development, among other things. First time we meet Vaelin Al Sorna he's a 10 year old kid who's just lost his mother and is sent to the Sixth Order, a secretive military arm of the Faith, to be trained in the art of war. The last time we s Re-read: July 2015 5 Stars Even better than the first time. ------------------------- 4.5 Stars The song is me, my blood, my need, my hunt. Blood Song is the promise of a seriously kick-ass trilogy. Rich storytelling, beautiful prose, fast paced, amazing character development, among other things. First time we meet Vaelin Al Sorna he's a 10 year old kid who's just lost his mother and is sent to the Sixth Order, a secretive military arm of the Faith, to be trained in the art of war. The last time we see him, he's a strong, loyal and brave man who's been through war, hunger, massacre, schemes and lies, Darkness and Faith, someone who's loved and lost and now as a prisoner of war, is not even near the end of his journey. The narrative Mr Ryan choose was so good. The little breaks we've got with Vernier's POV were a breath of fresh air. He had kindled something in me, the desire to write another story, grater and richer... The trainings and tests were incredibly compelling and those scenes were very well executed. The bond between Vaelin and his brothers is one of the strong points in this book, Frentis being one of the most interesting additions. The evolution of their relationship from little kids just playing with wood swords to skillful warriors looking for each other was impressive. The funny and heartfelt scenes were magnificently balanced, the tragedy and fantasy elements tangled in a captivating way. I really enjoyed his story with Sister Sharin but can't wait to see him working with Princess Lyrna. I think there's so much more about her to discover and it's exciting just to think of the possibilities. \"She raised her face to the sky, closing her eyes as the sun warmed her skin. \u201cI am.\u201d \u201cYou speak dangerous words, Highness.\u201d She smiled, her eyes still closed. \u201cOnly to you.\u201d And of course, the mystery behind the Aspect's Massacre and the legends about the Seventh is something I'm so eager to learn. \u201cThere\u2019s something growing. A threat, a danger, something that threatens us all. I\u2019ve felt it for a long time, although it\u2019s only now I realise it.\" As I said, this book said nothing but everything at the same time. The multiple layers of mystery absorb the reader's attention since page one and it continues till the very end. It's the best way to introduce us in a wonderful world with the legendary presence of the Hope Killer. \"Wanting is nothing. Destiny is everything.\" \"I'll chose my own fate.\" \"Choice is a lie. The greatest of lies\" Amazing buddy read with Tanya (: We did it! ...more Simply put, this book is awesome. It's hard to believe it's a debut novel as it lacks the tell tale signs. It's well written with a great set of characters, an interesting world with many interesting belief systems and a great magic system. These all come together with great pacing to tell a fantastic story that spans years and leaves you desperate for more. I had to start the second book the second I finished it :) I couldn't put it down and was late to more than one engagement, but happily I ha Simply put, this book is awesome. It's hard to believe it's a debut novel as it lacks the tell tale signs. It's well written with a great set of characters, an interesting world with many interesting belief systems and a great magic system. These all come together with great pacing to tell a fantastic story that spans years and leaves you desperate for more. I had to start the second book the second I finished it :) I couldn't put it down and was late to more than one engagement, but happily I have friends who understand what it is to be unable to leave the world of your book. I'd highly recommend this to anyone looking to read an excellent fantasy book. ...more 4 of 5 stars at The BiblioSanctum http://bibliosanctum.blogspot.com/201... The story of Blood Song is about a young boy who trains and grows up to become a leader and one of the greatest warriors in the kingdom. It's a tried-and-true formula in epic fantasy which by all rights I should be sick to death of by now, but Anthony Ryan manages to pull it off without making me feel like I'm getting the same old, same old. Take how the book starts, for example, opening on an encounter between a scribe and 4 of 5 stars at The BiblioSanctum http://bibliosanctum.blogspot.com/201... The story of Blood Song is about a young boy who trains and grows up to become a leader and one of the greatest warriors in the kingdom. It's a tried-and-true formula in epic fantasy which by all rights I should be sick to death of by now, but Anthony Ryan manages to pull it off without making me feel like I'm getting the same old, same old. Take how the book starts, for example, opening on an encounter between a scribe and a prisoner who is being transported across the sea to answer for his crimes. A duel to the death is the only end left for Vaelin al Sorna, also known as \"Hope Killer\". With a sobriquet like that, I couldn't help but wonder at his character, but I was also intrigued by his soft spokenness and eloquence. More puzzling is the fact that everyone seems to be treating him with respect and deference, in spite of his chains. Vaelin's story is recounted by the scribe, a mode of storytelling which is not uncommon even outside other mediums of fantasy, but in this case it is deftly executed, providing a deeply immersive experience for the reader. As a child, the main character is sent to the Sixth Order to train in the martial ways of the Faith. It's a harsh life fraught with peril, as Vaelin and his peers are driven relentlessly by their instructors to learn everything from doctrine and history, to survival methods or ways to wield a sword. In general, I'm not a big fan of this trope. More often than not, I find the training and \"growing up\" phase of the hero's story to be the most tedious part, and so I'm usually looking forward to getting it over with. Not so with Blood Song, though. Imagine my surprise when these sections of the book turned out to be the most rewarding aspect. I loved reading about Vaelin's experiences in the Sixth Order, especially some of the more challenging trials. I very much enjoyed the bonds he shared with his fellow brothers of the Faith, the fact that any conflicts between the boys are negated by the knowledge that they are all in this together. In fact, I liked this section a lot more than the later parts of the book, in which we see Vaelin go off to fight big battles and become embroiled in political plots and magic. Normally that would be the kind of stuff I live for in my epic fantasy, so you can see just how much I enjoyed the first half of the novel to consider it my favorite. Not that the second half is a slouch -- I think most people would find it more interesting, actually. For myself, I just couldn't help but develop a soft spot for Vaelin back when he was just a boy, when he still retained some of his innocence. As you've probably guessed, I have nothing but good things to say about the portrayal of Vaelin and the other characters in this novel. You will see the relationships forged early on between him and his brothers evolve as they face their hardships together year after year. And when enemies become friends or friends become enemies, the transformations are both a surprise but also believable. Vaelin himself is a good and honorable person, and his desire to transcend the expectations of his order and be a better person for those around him is an engrossing study into the themes of sacrifice, morals and personal beliefs. Highly recommended. I can just imagine the thrilled reactions of readers who picked this book up back when it was still independently published. A gem like this doesn't come along every day, and I'd say it stands out even beside some of the major epic fantasy novels today. ...more Do you like your loyaltea with a little blood in it? No, well bear with me anyway and I hope that I can open your ear for the tune of the blood song. As with every good tea party a theme makes it even better, except maybe playing bridge...then it is more of a bridge party, where someone might have some tea, but I degress. The theme of Blood Song is clearly loyalty. The main character, Vaelin Al Sorna, is handed over to an order of Warrior Monks by his fater, the Battle Lord of the realm. And in lea Do you like your loyaltea with a little blood in it? No, well bear with me anyway and I hope that I can open your ear for the tune of the blood song. As with every good tea party a theme makes it even better, except maybe playing bridge...then it is more of a bridge party, where someone might have some tea, but I degress. The theme of Blood Song is clearly loyalty. The main character, Vaelin Al Sorna, is handed over to an order of Warrior Monks by his fater, the Battle Lord of the realm. And in leaving, he reminds Vaelin of the family motto: Loyalty is our strength. But this is not the first time we meet Vaelin, cause the story starts years later from that day. Vaelin has become a famous hero and relates his tale to a historian of a nation that has imprisoned Vaelin. The story consists of 5 parts and each parts starts with a brief introduction told in first person by the historian. For the actual story, the narrative then swaps to third person and is told exclusively from Vaelin's point of view. About the first half of the book is a coming-of-age setting inside the order house, where Vaelin and other kids learn to be warriors in the name of the Faith, a religion devoted to honouring the Departed, the spirits of all the dead people. This religion has no gods and believes that gods are a lie in general. In the second part Vaelin and his order brothers then go off into the world to fight for their faith, the king and their realm. Nothing of this seems very new, but it is executed really, really well. The pacing is fantastic. Author Anthony Ryan creats bigger and smaller mysteries and always gives you answers at the appropriate points in the story, which either solve a smaller mystery or lets you reevaluate the bigger plot lines. Therefore there are zero dull moments in the story, cause he also finds a good balance between physical action, plot progression and character development. And most of those dynamics actually result from Vaelin's believes and struggles with loyalty. In the course of the book he develops loyalties to individuals, organizations and concepts and conflict always arises, when two of those loyalties collide. Of coure there is a magic system in the world, many interesting nations and a greater evil building up for the whole series, but that is for you to find out yourself. This is definitely one of the best fantasy novels I've ever read regarding the coming of age story of a very relatable and human hero. I normally don't tap into the hype of books and often struggle with some of the big guns in the business, but this was finally a hyped book that connected really well with me. And as a lover of multi-pov narratives I was quite happy to find out that Anthony Ryan has added some more povs in his second novel, Tower Lord which I hope to get to quite soon. If you like to watch a video review for this as well, head over to my booktube channel and find it here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FZVtA... ...more Full Review originally at Fantasy Book Critic [Plus Analysis by Liviu] OVERVIEW/ANALYSIS: Blood Song is another of those books that I discovered a few months earlier, thanks to Amazon\u2019s cool algorithm for suggesting titles I might like based on my previous \u201cBuying and Search\u201d history. Previously I had stumbled upon Zero Sight by B Justin Shier the same way and the way that book turned out to be, I have learnt to keep an eye out for such Amazon recommendations. Blood Song begins with a first pers Full Review originally at Fantasy Book Critic [Plus Analysis by Liviu] OVERVIEW/ANALYSIS: Blood Song is another of those books that I discovered a few months earlier, thanks to Amazon\u2019s cool algorithm for suggesting titles I might like based on my previous \u201cBuying and Search\u201d history. Previously I had stumbled upon Zero Sight by B Justin Shier the same way and the way that book turned out to be, I have learnt to keep an eye out for such Amazon recommendations. Blood Song begins with a first person narrative featuring Lord Verniers Alishe Someren, a chronicler that has been chosen to write about the main character Vaelin Al-Sorna and about the journey that they both will undertake. The story then begins Vaelin\u2019s past as when as a child he\u2019s commanded to join the Sixth Order of the Faith of the Unified Realm. Thus begins Vaelin\u2019s journey wherein he will learn to wield weapons and become a famed warrior of the unified realm that will also earn him many names all across various nations and regions. Friends and foes alike will be drawn to him in differing amounts. But when all is said and done, Vaelin\u2019s journey has only begun as the reader will learn more about his past as well as that of his realm. One searches for the next best thing in fantasy, often going through many books in search of the book that will enthrall you completely. I almost missed on this beauty by buying it but then never getting around to reading it. I owe thanks to Michael Sullivan for reminding me about this book and what a book it is. Beginning from the events in the past to the current story going on currently, this setup has been explored in various fantasy, historical and other genre novels. The most recent famous example being The Name Of The Wind by Patrick Rothfuss. In fact a similarity between those two books can be seen in regards to the protagonist's story and their growth via a university/military school setting. What differentiates these two books is a terrific conclusion to the book as well as themes about war and its follies. Also this was my observation but I found some shades of David Gemmell in Anthony Ryan\u2019s storytelling style and prose. It is heartening to see a Brit take up the mantle of heroic, epic fantasy from one of fantasy\u2019s most distinguished writers as well as a fellow British writer. This book is more akin to a traditional epic fantasy wherein it\u2019s set in a pseudo-European setting and with a world history that is unveiled slowly and tantalizingly. At the same time, there is a core mystery at the heart of this plotline, why was Vaelin sent to the sixth order? What really happened with his parents? Who is the One Who Waits? These questions and much more abound this volume and will tempt readers into coming back for the later parts of this trilogy. The book focuses in the past as well as the present and the author has tantalizingly kept both time periods shrouded in mystery. This thread is what powers the book throughout and makes the story such a strong one. Characterization is also a strong point in this opening volume, even though we get a singular narrative voice for the majority of the book. The author has created a fascinating side character cast particularly King Janus, Princess Lyrna just to name a few, these characters make the story even more fascinating and with the increase in POV character cast in \"Tower Lord\" (book II). I can't wait to see which other characters get their own narrative voices. The book ends on a strong note and with a twist that is hard to anticipate, giving the readers a complete story if they want to read just this book however I\u2019m sure once the readers finish this book they will want to read \u201cTower Lord\u201d the next in the Raven\u2019s Shadow trilogy. Anthony Ryan\u2019s Blood Song is a tremendous debut; it has a fast paced, action packed and character driven story. Qualities to admire in any genre story and most of all in an epic fantasy one. Give this book a read, if you have ever felt that Indie books have no quality to them, give this book a read if you are tired of the same morass of stories in the epic fantasy genre, give this book a read if you want a well written story by a newbie author and lastly give this book a read if you want to read a story that\u2019s closest to those written by David Gemmell. ...more Excuse me one moment please, while I run out and get my hands on book two Tower Lord because This was so Awesome, I'm left wanting no needing More more Morrrrreee!!!! Having been through more fantasy and science fiction series than any functioning adult should be comfortable admitting, I am leery of writing anything overly adulatory about the first novel of a series, especially when that novel is not merely good but quite possibly great. This is because first-in-a-series novels are like first dates. On the one hand, you can end up meeting the woman of your dreams, whom you will marry and who will bear you a surprising number of children, with whom you will liv Having been through more fantasy and science fiction series than any functioning adult should be comfortable admitting, I am leery of writing anything overly adulatory about the first novel of a series, especially when that novel is not merely good but quite possibly great. This is because first-in-a-series novels are like first dates. On the one hand, you can end up meeting the woman of your dreams, whom you will marry and who will bear you a surprising number of children, with whom you will live in domestic bliss until the day you wake up and find at least some of your children with knives and shurikens at your throat and you're surprised because you used to hide those behind the liquor cabinet and then you smell their breath and realize they got into that, too. On the other, it can be that sparkling first date that rapidly degenerates into forced picnics and awkward silences because the girl's roommate is a closet lesbian who is repressing her feelings because she's not sure if this is a phase and she doesn't want to upset her parents but she knows she's attracted to her roommate and so she tells her that you look like a child molester and once the seed is planted you can't even look at a panel van again, while she's around anyway. I stress that I've never dated a girl whose roommate was, to the best of my knowledge, a closet lesbian. With those caveats out of the way, before I say things like \"this is one of the best novels I've ever read,\" let's get the downsides out of the way. First, Anthony Ryan, the author of Blood Song , seriously could have used a copy editor, and just a little bit, a regular editor. The prologue drags. I understand there's a lot of setup here, but half of it isn't strictly necessary. The copyediting for what I presume was a self-edited piece is incredible, but there are a lot of homophone slips, enough that your eye doesn't pass over them like an angry wife when you're hung over and hiding under the blankets, but instead trips like an angry wife when she tries walking over the blankets and you're hung over and hiding under them on the floor. Second, it's bad enough that Ryan uses that obnoxious British spelling for everything -- I mean, he's a Brit, so insisting on using spellings that the Oxford English Dictionary insists are wrong just because Americans use the right ones is a thing -- but he writes not like a Brit but a Canadian. It's a voice that sounds more American than British, which means I've probably insulted the poor fellow at least twice in this paragraph as far as he's concerned, but it's disconcerting to read American- or Canadian-style writing and stumble not just over \"realise\" but the word \"shambolic,\" which is amazingly a word, albeit a ridiculous one. Third, and this is actually a backhanded compliment, this is such a complete book that I'm not sure how he gets through the next one. It doesn't feel like Ryan is forcing a sequel, not yet anyway, but instead like this is such a tidy, neatly-wrapped book that it's hard to imagine what he'll prattle on about for 200,000 words, which his blog tells me is coming. Fourth, having the obviously-Asian guy come from a distant land that uses Chinese symbolism and archetypes is not just a cliche, it is the only weak element of characterization in the novel. Now, for the rest. Blood Song is one of the best books I've ever read. I have a pantheon of twenty books/compendia ranging from classics of literature to autobiography to history to science fiction and fantasy to tragedy, an eclectic mix until you realize I'm likely disturbed at some level. I don't think a book has cracked into these ranks since law school. I think this one did. It is not just the typical coming-of-age-for-the-world-shaking-boy/young man. It is a deeply personal tragedy in which the world crumbles again and again around the protagonist starting at the beginning of his second decade of life and apparently continuing into the end of his third. That's a lot of time to suffer time and again. What struck me, though, was not just the grimly inspiring story, but the level of detail, understanding, nuance, and richness woven through the book. Lest I be accused of writing a high school book report in the ten minutes before class starts (a sin of which I was guilty at one time), let me expand on that. Imagine writing a story in which the whole world has a rich history, a cast of characters who forged that world within living memory, and a square area of a few thousand miles. Then open up that world into a part of a bigger one, and then collapse it into a tiny one. Imagine trying to do all of this through two main voices and a host of actually-differentiated supporting voices. Imagine trying to tell that story without taking only fifty pages of sparse notes or three thousand pages of tedium. Imagine writing a Christian history of Christianity but with pagans and agnostics as the Christians and with a polytheistic Muslim sultanate to the South. As someone who has spent, off and on, the last twenty years of his life fleshing out a handful of stories in his mind about a world he created for an Advanced Dungeons and Dragons (2nd Edition forever!) campaign, and who has subsequently tried to finish a single novel, just one, I am here to tell you that this is an insanely difficult balancing act. The fact that Ryan has managed such a trick without editors or other apparent support structure is not just interesting or impressive, it is more or less unbelievable. One thing that struck me as I finished this book and as at least three children were screaming at me (this was at a little after 2 a.m., so I was having a comparatively easy night) was that Ryan managed to make every twist and turn in the novel not a gimmick or tiring cliche, but rather an internally consistent and explicable revelation to a sadly-limited narrator. This may be the most impressive trick of all -- it's one thing to spend years writing an intricate novel and making it readable, it's another altogether to engage a reader's suspension of disbelief and have it remain a vital and living thing as you jar it repeatedly through your work. I have worked hard to avoid spoilers here and I will continue to do so. Suffice it to say that while I felt the novel's penultimate chapter predictable at some level when I started the novel, I was struck by how Ryan had made the protagonist's resolution of the surrounding plot actually in some dispute by the end. You'll see what I mean, if you read this. Which, incidentally, you really should. It's cheap at three times the price and twice the time involved to read. ...more Let me preface this by saying that I have owned this book for a good year, but, as is my usual fashion, I did not get around to reading this until last week because, books. Not to mention the Australian cover is pretty chat and the title sounds like the title of every epic fantasy novel EVER. But, a good number of my friends on Goodreads were reading Book II of the Raven's Shadow series, Tower Lord, in preparation for Queen of Fire, Raven\u2019s Shadow Book III, which came out at the end of June in A Let me preface this by saying that I have owned this book for a good year, but, as is my usual fashion, I did not get around to reading this until last week because, books. Not to mention the Australian cover is pretty chat and the title sounds like the title of every epic fantasy novel EVER. But, a good number of my friends on Goodreads were reading Book II of the Raven's Shadow series, Tower Lord, in preparation for Queen of Fire, Raven\u2019s Shadow Book III, which came out at the end of June in Australia. He had many names Blood Song begins Interview with a Vampire style, whereby a Historian from an enemy Empire, has been given the task of recording the last days of the \u2018Hope Killer\u2019, who is our protagonist in this tome, otherwise known as Vaelin Al Sorna. Sword of the Realm to the mad king who sent him to plague us We learn early on, that Vaelin has been a prisoner of the Alpiran Empire for five years, and must now face a duel to the death, where no matter the outcome, he is to face his end at the hands of his captors as penance for the crimes committed by his Father, the former Battle Lord of the Unified Realm, the land from where Vaelin hails \u2013 notably, the Battle Lord\u2019s crime of burning of the City where the duel is to be held. The Young Hawk to the men who followed him through the trials of war We then cycle way back to when Vaelin was ten years old, and is left by his father - who has only recently resigned his post of First Battle Lord of the realm\u2013 at the Sixth Order, one of the six Brotherhoods of the Unified Realm, a realm of four factions, unified by a mad King, which do not always see eye to eye. Vaelin has been left to begin his training in the order devoted to battle. The other Orders devote themselves to healing, learning, communing with the dead, spreading the faith and the hunting of heretics. Darkblade to his Cumbraelin enemies Vaelin\u2019s mother has recently died of illness, and he does not understand why his father has left him to this place, where the weak are weeded out from the group through a series of punishing trials that see Vaelin lose friends along the way. The brutality, losses and an interesting discovery along the way cause Vaelin to hate his father, which becomes motivational throughout the remainder of his training. Beral Shak Ur to the enigmatic tribes of the Great Northern Forest Going back to the Orders devoted to protection of the Faith, the Faith itself is a strange one in comparison to your average fantasy novel, in that there is no God as such. The realm\u2019s fifth instead centers around the worship of the ancestetors from \u2018The Beyond\u2019 who can be communicated with by those of the First Order of and the truly faithful. The Fourth Order goes so far as to hut down God Worshipers as heretics. The Shadow of the Raven What stands out for me in this one is that Vaelin is a character with an obvious purpose, and seems that he is being dragged along by destiny. Through so many epic fantasy novels, the hero out to fulfill their destiny, is an unlikely one. In Blood Song however, Vaelin\u2019s father is the First Battle Lord of the Realm, his mother is a notable healer, and King Janus himself had once hoped for Vaelin to marry his daughter to stand by his side in place of the ageing King\u2019s supposed weak willed son. I'm as yet unsure if it is Vaelin's 'purpose' or 'destiny' that is altered when his father left him at the Order. It seems to me though, he may yet fulfil both - if he can survive the treason and plotting all around him. But my people knew him by but one name The support characters in this story are wonderful, from Vaelins\u2019s \u2018brother\u2019s\u2019 in the Sixth Order to the Masters and Healers, and to say I am a little bit intrigued by the King\u2019s Daughter would be a gross understatement \u2013 I have a feeling the female characters are going to play a very big part in this series, and not in the way you might think. And it was this that sang in my head continually the morning There is a series called \u2018The Deed of Paksennarion\u2019, a three book series I LOVED despite the sudden and a little odd finish to book three. Blood song has a similar feeling to that first book which tells the story of a girl warrior and her rise through her own Order in the kingdom to her eventual place as Paladin of the realm and complete legend. \u2018The Deed of Paksennarion\u2019 is written by Elizabeth Moon, who also wrote a killer sci-fi series called \u2018Vatta\u2019s War\u2019 - in case you are interested. ` Her books are unassuming and in-depth, but wonderful. Hope Killer. Soon you will die and I will see it. Hope Killer. Finally, I\u2019m not sure about the \u2018Magic System\u2019 in this one. Now, there is a good chance I was drunk for some of this book, so I may have merely missed it, though I just can\u2019t remember seeing it really explained. Basically, throughout the story Vaelin \u2018hears\u2019 this Blood Song, which is mostly an inbuilt warning detection centre so far, acting as a guide, and saving him from death on several occasions. I\u2019m not sure he has much actual control over it, and I really can\u2019t remember how it got it. Is it a thing you get? Can I get it? Just a lucky guy or what? If you happen to know more about this Magic System or could better explain it to me, please feel free to comment. I wasn\u2019t joking about being drunk. I was having a bad week\u2026. This review is also available at Return Of The Bibliphile ...more", "Title": "Blood Song"},
