{"Comments": "Jodi, Jodi, Jodi.<---F> We need to talk</---F>. I like you, I really really do. I think you are a fun girl to fly with, and I like hanging out with you when no one else is around to make fun of me when they see us together. But I feel as though our relationship is going the way of Beatrice Sparks. I mean, we really hit it off with My Sister's Keeper. And that first meeting was soooooo gooooood. But this relationship has taken a serious nose dive. 10th Circle, wha? Are you on drugs? Did you have a lobotomy? W Jodi, Jodi, Jodi. We need to talk. I like you, I really really do. I think you are a fun girl to fly with, and I like hanging out with you when no one else is around to make fun of me when they see us together. But I feel as though our relationship is going the way of Beatrice Sparks. I mean, we really hit it off with My Sister's Keeper. And that first meeting was soooooo gooooood. But this relationship has taken a serious nose dive. 10th Circle, wha? Are you on drugs? Did you have a lobotomy? Whatever it is, Jodi, you can tell me. Help me help you. I don't want to lose you the way I lost Bea. Sincerly, Liz P.S. I'm having a party this weekend, and we will be playing Rainbow. Let me know if you want to go. The boys still think you are a hottie, and most of them only care about one thing (<---B>and it's not your writing, thankfully!</---B>) ...more So if one were to compare popular fiction with dining, you could probably say writers like Danielle Steele,<---M> John Grisham</---M>, Nora Roberts, etc are the McDonald's of writers. I would probably equate <---A>Jodi Picoult</---A> with Applebee's. Reading a Jodi Picoult novel is like casual dining. You pretty much know what you're going to get, and you don't expect anything life altering. But it's entertaining, it's atmospheric, and it certainly feels at least a bit more upscale. This novel is about a family: a mom, a So if one were to compare popular fiction with dining, you could probably say writers like Danielle Steele, John Grisham, Nora Roberts, etc are the McDonald's of writers. I would probably equate Jodi Picoult with Applebee's. Reading a Jodi Picoult novel is like casual dining. You pretty much know what you're going to get, and you don't expect anything life altering. But it's entertaining, it's atmospheric, and it certainly feels at least a bit more upscale. This novel is about a family: a mom, a dad, a daughter, and how they react to the daughter's rape. And also the dad's past in Alaska. And also the mom's affair. And also the towns' reaction to the rape. And also a sled dog race in Alaska. And there's also a graphic novel, and you learn a little about Dante... Basically, there is a LOT going on in this novel. I felt like the author tried to cram a few too many things into this novel, and in the end was unable to tie up everything nicely. A lot of things just got sort of thrown in there; there are themes and characters and locations running amok! But overall, I enjoyed this book. You'll get caught up in the story, and it is well written other than the overkill of plot lines. This is a decent read and I would recommend it. Maybe you should take it with you and read it while waiting for drinks at Applebee's. ...more Although I had read quite a number of Jodi Picoult books, I was doubtful about this one because it included a lot of the material in comic-strip format and I do not like comics or graphic novels at all. I needn't have worried though, because the story reads just as well just sticking to the text. In fact, especially after the tedious writing and despicable characters of Mercy , I was really surprised by some good storytelling and quite well-rounded characterisations. The research Picoult had put Although I had read quite a number of Jodi Picoult books, I was doubtful about this one because it included a lot of the material in comic-strip format and I do not like comics or graphic novels at all. I needn't have worried though, because the story reads just as well just sticking to the text. In fact, especially after the tedious writing and despicable characters of Mercy , I was really surprised by some good storytelling and quite well-rounded characterisations. The research Picoult had put into modern adolescent sexual behaviour and into the lives of native Alaskans really enlivened the book. The only point that was a bit of a downer for me was that the ending was guessable and dealt with in matter of a few lines when I would have liked it to go on a bit more. Perhaps that is the mark of a good read - when you want it to go on a bit more! ...more <+++>The Tenth Circle</+++> by Jodi Picoult is based on a fourteen-year-old girl, Trixie Stone, who is madly in love for the first time with an upper classman named Jason Underhill, who happens to be the star hockey player of the town and well known by everyone. Sadly though, Jason doesn\u2019t love Trixie; he merely only likes her. Because of this fact, after he broke off their relationship, he was the only one to move on. Trixie became depressed, desperate, and determined. To relieve her emotional pain, she b <+++>The Tenth Circle</+++> by Jodi Picoult is based on a fourteen-year-old girl, Trixie Stone, who is madly in love for the first time with an upper classman named Jason Underhill, who happens to be the star hockey player of the town and well known by everyone. Sadly though, Jason doesn\u2019t love Trixie; he merely only likes her. Because of this fact, after he broke off their relationship, he was the only one to move on. Trixie became depressed, desperate, and determined. To relieve her emotional pain, she began cutting, which is a sign of deep depression. Also, she created a barrier between her and her dad, just as Jason had done with her. But after Trixie was convinced by her best friend Zephyr that she should make Jason jealous by hitting on other guys and appearing to be easy, she lies to her dad by telling him that she is staying the night with Zephyr and that Zephyr\u2019s mom will be there. When in reality, Zephyr\u2019s mom is out of town and they are having a party full of guys, including Jason. That night after giving oral sex to countless guys and playing strip poker, she finds herself alone with Jason. After realizing he doesn\u2019t really want her back, but instead just wants to be friends with benefits, she tries to get away from him. Failing to do so, he rapes her. Making the right decision, she chooses not to stay the night with Zephyr. Instead, she goes home in the middle of the night and places herself in the bathroom floor, where her father finds her crying and shaking violently. Then, she tells him. \u201cDaddy, he raped me.\u201d After that night, Trixie\u2019s life turns upside down. They press charges and await a trial... but how can there be a trial if the suspect winds up dead? What happens next? I can\u2019t say, but you can find out. But I do have to say, things don\u2019t always turn out the way you expect them to. *** Sadly though, The Tenth Circle by Jodi Picoult has been challenged from a few highschools across the world because because it includes suicide and also sexual content, such as date rape and adultery. But in my opinion, it shouldnt be challenged nor banned because Picoult is not encouraging teens to do negative things but instead to send out a message: Do we really ever know anyone as well as we think we do? ...more We can't keep Jodi Picoult on the shelves in the bookstore where I work. I picked this one up just to see what all the fuss is about and before I knew what was happening I was a hundred pages into it. Picoult's great strength seems to lie in creating a suspenseful build-up as the reader waits for Devastating Tragedy to descend on her characters. Unfortunately, she doesn't seem to know what to do after that and covers up by adding one big 'dramatic' plot twist after another. It could have been sa We can't keep Jodi Picoult on the shelves in the bookstore where I work. I picked this one up just to see what all the fuss is about and before I knew what was happening I was a hundred pages into it. Picoult's great strength seems to lie in creating a suspenseful build-up as the reader waits for Devastating Tragedy to descend on her characters. Unfortunately, she doesn't seem to know what to do after that and covers up by adding one big 'dramatic' plot twist after another. It could have been saved if the characters had more than one dimension. Apparently, that was too much to hope for. Eventually I did managed to drag myself to the end of this book at which point I was left feeling resentful over the time I wasted reading it. ...more A minha opini\u00e3o em v\u00eddeo: https://youtu.be/RlF_N7E6mpI Mais uma grande, grande hist\u00f3ria da Jodi Picoult. Prendeu-me do inicio ao fim. A \u00fanica parte de que gostei menos, foi a do Alasca...de resto, adorei tudo! WHY do I read these books? They are poorly written. REALLY poorly written. Past the point of believability and, more importantly, enjoyability. The characters are completely one-dimensional and interchangable (I could have sworn I read this book before...and then I remembered I very nearly had when I read Nineteen Minutes), and they do nothing but spew these incredibly cliched lines about love and loss and watching your children grow up, or some bullshit. Maybe it wouldn't be bullshit if a) I ac WHY do I read these books? They are poorly written. REALLY poorly written. Past the point of believability and, more importantly, enjoyability. The characters are completely one-dimensional and interchangable (I could have sworn I read this book before...and then I remembered I very nearly had when I read Nineteen Minutes), and they do nothing but spew these incredibly cliched lines about love and loss and watching your children grow up, or some bullshit. Maybe it wouldn't be bullshit if a) I actually believed in the integrity of the characters enough to care if they lived or died, or b) it weren't written in such overly dramatic, maudlin prose. If Dean Koontz and Sue Monk Kidd had a baby, and that baby had some sort of developmental delay, they would have given birth to Jodi Picoult. But for some reason I stayed up until four AM trying to finish this book. Mostly I skimmed through the last third because yeah, Jodi, I get it. The snow is a metaphor. Alaska is a metaphor. Everything is a metaphor. You've beat me to death with it. I just want to find out what happened to Trixie's attacker. KTHX. I suppose the fact that she kept me reading until four AM is a testament to her storytelling talent, but considering the fact that I watched two episodes of 20/20, both about serial killers, I wasn't going to sleep until dawn broke anyway. Let's just say I like finding out how her stories will be resolved, but I HATE the literary hajj I have to trek before I finally, FINALLY get there. ...more So I think I'm missing something in Jodi Picoult's writing. This is the third book I've ready by her (Pact, Sister's Keeper) and I must say that I've felt the same way about all three. I don't really like the characters. I find it hard to feel sympathetic or compassionate towards anyone in the stories. Not that this is a requirement, but I think liking someone or feeling sympathy or empathy for them, makes for good reading. I will give Picoult credit in that she keeps me hanging on. I haven't no So I think I'm missing something in Jodi Picoult's writing. This is the third book I've ready by her (Pact, Sister's Keeper) and I must say that I've felt the same way about all three. I don't really like the characters. I find it hard to feel sympathetic or compassionate towards anyone in the stories. Not that this is a requirement, but I think liking someone or feeling sympathy or empathy for them, makes for good reading. I will give Picoult credit in that she keeps me hanging on. I haven't not finished anything I've started by her. I am always disappointed in the end though. Her formula is to have a missing detail to the \"mystery\" that the main character knows, but we're waiting for her to tell us. I'm always expecting it to be something really unexpected that totally changes the story or the way I respond to it, but in the end, it is usually something predictable or typical. About this book in particular, I'd probably rate it the worst of the three I've read. There's this whole comic book storyline of the father that I found annoying, as well as the so-called 180 turnaround in his character that is talked about, but never really explained. Too many loose ends, like Seth's involvement in the situation - kind of a stretch. It just didn't all jive for me. And then the conclusion in Alaska - loved the change of scenery, but seemed way too contrived to me. If you're looking to start reading Picoult, start somewhere else. ...more \"Women's fiction\" and \"chick-lit\" are not my cup of tea, they are not interesting to me, but no reason why such books shouldn't be given the same consideration as any other genre. I try to avoid genre snobbery (though sometimes it bubbles up with regard to YA fiction and Paranormal Romances) and considering my own tastes range from the highbrow to the very lowbrow, I am not one to cast stones. Or if I am going to cast stones, I want to know what I am throwing them at. I mean, a lot of people thin \"Women's fiction\" and \"chick-lit\" are not my cup of tea, they are not interesting to me, but no reason why such books shouldn't be given the same consideration as any other genre. I try to avoid genre snobbery (though sometimes it bubbles up with regard to YA fiction and Paranormal Romances) and considering my own tastes range from the highbrow to the very lowbrow, I am not one to cast stones. Or if I am going to cast stones, I want to know what I am throwing them at. I mean, a lot of people think Jane Austen is \"chick-lit\" (she totally isn't!), and I loved Austen once I gave her a try. Jodi Picoult is a fairly big name, and she and Jennifer Weiner (another writer of \"women's fiction\") were involved in brouhaha concerning the media's adoration of Jonathan Franzen. (To summarize: they didn't claim that they are as good as Jonathan Franzen and should get just as much attention; they claimed that Franzen and other dude-lit authors get big spotlighted reviews and flattering Time Magazine articles while women who write as well and tell the same types of stories get shoved into this little box called \"women's fiction.\" It's probably a fair point, but I haven't read Jonathan Franzen. On the other hand, none of Picoult or Weiner's books really look interesting to me. And while, again, they were careful not to claim that they thought they personally deserved to have the same status as Jonathan Franzen, it's pretty easy to see the unspoken word \" necessarily \" inserted into that disclaimer. The Tenth Circle happened to be on sale at Audible.com, so I decided to check it out and see just what Ms. Picoult's literary chops are like. In two words: nothing special. Not terrible, not great, palatable but bland writing with pretensions of being deep and allegorical. The story was very much a movie-of-the-week sort of story. Daniel and Laura Stone are comfortable suburbanites living in a snuggly affluent neighborhood and they have a teenage daughter named Trixie (no, I could never get past that name, nor why she thought \"Trixie\" was so much less embarrassing than her real name, Beatrice) who is basically your standard issue American high school freshman. Daniel is a comic book artist, a fairly big name one, like the sort who would be recognized at conventions, and Laura is a college professor. Into this tranquil pond of domesticity, Picoult drops two stones to ripple the waters. The first is that Laura is banging one of her grad students. The second is that Trixie has a boyfriend, and she's been reading too much Twilight , therefore she doesn't understand why the universe does not end since all life and meaning is erased when he breaks up with her. (Actually, the book makes no mention of Trixie reading anything.) So, Trixie is really, really angsty. She will do anything to get Jason back, even go to a rainbow party . OH NOES! TEH KIDS ARE HAVING TEH SEX! Okay, seriously, Jodi Picoult? I know \"rainbow parties\" were all the rage when you wrote this back in 2006, which is to say Oprah & co. were freaking out about it all over daytime TV, but... were these ever really a thing? Yes, teenagers have sex and sometimes they have really stupid sex. But when I read about how the author researched teen sexual behavior for this book by talking to actual real live teenagers, all I could think was, \"Don't you know that the other thing teenagers do is lie and make shit up? Especially when talking to grown-ups about sex?\" I'm not saying that every teenager who told Picoult about their sex life was lying, or that \"rainbow parties\" have never, ever happened (though I suspect they're more likely to have happened in a private Manhattan club frequented by Wall Street investment bankers than a suburban basement packed with teenagers). I see what Picoult's intention was (and I'd see it even if I weren't able to infer what an author is saying from context because Picoult spells it out, repeatedly, because she assumes her readers are kind of dim): she's concerned that we are raising a generation of extremely selfish and sexually entitled young men and girls who obligingly cater to their expectations. Which is a valid concern and a worthy message, but Picoult is riding a trendy wave here that was largely based on urban legends and she teeters on the edge of sex-hysteria and \"It's 9 p.m. DO YOU KNOW WHERE YOUR DAUGHTER IS?!?!?\" So anyway, at this party, Trixie tries to hook up with Jason, winds up getting drunk and playing strip poker and hitting on his best friend to make him jealous and... yeah. So next thing we know, she comes home and says Jason raped her. Now, by this point in the story, I could see what Picoult's perspective was and what messages she was trying to convey, so I figured there was approximately a 0% chance that she was going to make Trixie a liar. But, she wants to keep the reader guessing. So Jason gets arrested, and claims it was consensual. We even get a few chapters written from his POV and learn that he actually does believe it was consensual. There's also a subplot about the arresting officer whose own daughter died a few years ago, which serves no purpose other than to slightly flesh out a secondary character who has a minor role in the book and give him some shared man-pain bonding with Trixie's father. Eventually we learn (surprise) that there are a few secrets Trixie has been hiding, even though much of the book is written from her POV and therefore Picoult is deliberately hiding them from the reader as well. The purpose of which is not to make her not-raped but to drag up a bit more angst about consent issues and teen sexuality and also Trixie starts cutting, and she attempts suicide, and pretty much the whole town (including her best friend) turns against her in a textbook case of victim-blaming. In other words, Jodi Picoult uses didactic angst the way Chinese restaurants use MSG, and she's manipulative as hell about the way she tries to jerk the reader's emotions around. We like the bad boys, but only a little bad, and only after they're properly leashed The other major thread in the book involves Trixie's parents, but really, it's about her father, Daniel. I mentioned that as the book begins, Professor Stone is having an affair with a 20-year-old grad student. Picoult is all totally subversive and role-reversing and shit because it's the young guy who becomes clingy and needy and whiny and begs the older woman not to leave him when she decides she'd rather keep her family after all. It becomes immediately apparent that basically <---C>Daniel Stone</---C> was once a \"bad boy\" whose domestication into stable wage-earner, house-husband and driver of mini-vans is what caused his wife to decide she needed a little sexin' from someone half her age to remember what it was like to be young and hot. You know, like middle-aged guys do when they're having mid-life crises, and are promptly and rightfully condemned as being shallow, selfish jerkwads. In fairness, Picoult doesn't exactly let Laura off the hook for this (in fact, she actually punishes Laura to a degree that rivals Jane Austen at her most judgmental), but it still read an awful lot like Laura Stone is a bit of a stand-in/wish-fulfillment figure for Picoult and her similarly-aged female readers: professionally successful, respected, relatively affluent, with a former Bad Boy as a tamed husband, and some action on the side from a young hottie. Getting back to Daniel -- okay, it's really hard for me to take a comic book artist seriously as a \"bad boy,\" but that's his story. (Picoult did a stint writing Wonder Woman , so she asserts her geek-cred by littering the book with name-dropping about Ultimate X-Men and Image Comics and Stan Lee and so on.) Actually, his story is that he grew up the only white boy in a Yup'ik village in Alaska. (Picoult also went to a Yup'ik village in Alaska to do research for this book. I'll give her credit for this: at least she doesn't just rely on the Internet for her research.) And he got bullied and picked on and he never fit in so he got in lots of fights, and also they didn't have flush toilets and it was fucking Alaska, so woe, woe, his childhood was really hard and he left as soon as he turned eighteen. When Laura met him, he was this edgy caricature artist. (Yeah, seriously. Try to say \"edgy caricature artist\" with a straight face.) He's a bad boy because he was smoking a cigarette when she met him. And he flirted with her right in front of her boyfriend! And then he invited her to meet him at a bar ! Swoon, ladies! Then he knocks her up, she leaves him because she thinks he won't be a good father, so he goes and puts on a tie and gets a steady gig as a comic book artist to prove he can be a Good Provider, and fast forward to fifteen years later when Laura is kind of missing that Bad Boy who used to smoke and occasionally go to bars. All of this is backstory so that when Trixie is raped, we're supposed to see Daniel as a seething mass of conflicted manhood. Naturally, like any father whose daughter has been raped, his first reaction is \"Hulk smash!\" so we get to watch him struggle with what he knows he should do -- stay calm and be supportive of his daughter and not go acting like a crazy person. But the whole thing is so overwrought, Picoult lets him get a little angry and a little rageful and go acting like a little bit of a crazy person, but just enough to reassure the reader that he's not 100% tame, only about 92%. Metaphor for Dummies Laura Stone knew exactly how to go to Hell. She could map out its geography on napkins at departmental cocktail parties; she was able to recite all of the passageways and rivers and folds by heart; she was on a first-name basis with its sinners. As one of the top Dante scholars in the country, she taught a course in this very subject; and had done so every year since being tenured at Monroe College. English 364 was also listed in the course handbook as Burn Baby Burn (or: What the Devil is the Inferno?), and was one of the most popular courses on campus in the second trimester even though Dante\u2019s epic poem \u2013 the Divine Comedy \u2013 wasn\u2019t funny at all. Like her husband Daniel\u2019s artwork, which was neither comic nor a book, the Inferno covered every genre of pop culture: romance, horror, mystery, crime. And like all of the best stories, it had at its center an ordinary, everyday hero who simply didn\u2019t know how he\u2019d ever become one. The \"Tenth Circle\" is the literary conceit threaded through the entire book. Everything is cast as a Dantean allegory. After an introduction to Lucifer and his frozen lake in hell, the frozen/winter imagery runs rampant. Everything takes place in the winter time. Daniel came from a village in Alaska that he thought was hellish before he escaped. Trixie runs away to Alaska to escape from her own hell. I think Jodi Picoult knows how symbolism is supposed to work, but she uses it the way a middle school student discovering metaphors for the first time uses them in an English paper. Laura Stone teaches Dante's Inferno in college, and Daniel Stone draws a comic book about a superhero who rescues his daughter from hell. As everyone's sins and self-doubts get unearthed, there are of course frequent references to the various circles of hell in which they belong, ending in a climax that brings Daniel, Laura, and Trixie to Alaska. It is effective, in its way, but it's effective in the way that snapping your fingers in front of someone's face is an effective way to get their attention. I wanted to be fair-minded in my foray into \"women's fiction,\" and I was really hoping I'd find hidden depths here, but no, The Tenth Circle is just utterly average and overwrought melodrama, suitable for exactly the use to which it was put, a cable TV movie of the week. It's not even a bad book that I can properly pan -- Picoult's writing is okay and the story was structured well and had enough twists that it should have been more interesting. If it was in a genre I liked, I'd probably rate it 3 or 3.5 stars and call it entertaining if unexceptional. But literary it is not, the tinge of moral panic worked against its well-intentioned introductory-level feminism, and I resent any author who tries to lead the reader by the nose. Jodi Picoult did not impress me as someone being unfairly denied Serious Author status because of her sex, but I've certainly read worse, from both sexes. ...more I'm always up for a good psychological thriller, and Picoult certainly knows how to pick her topics. Memory regression, teen mass murder sprees, suicide pacts - you name it, and she's right there. Though this book approaches the topic from an oblique angle, The Tenth Circle is, at its core, a story about family and the strength of those familial bonds. By tracing what happens to the Stone family after their daughter, Trixie, claims she has been raped by her ex-boyfriend, we investigate what love I'm always up for a good psychological thriller, and Picoult certainly knows how to pick her topics. Memory regression, teen mass murder sprees, suicide pacts - you name it, and she's right there. Though this book approaches the topic from an oblique angle, The Tenth Circle is, at its core, a story about family and the strength of those familial bonds. By tracing what happens to the Stone family after their daughter, Trixie, claims she has been raped by her ex-boyfriend, we investigate what love can drive us to do, and what it can - and cannot - save us from. My main criticism about Picoult's body of work is that her books seem to be too quickly executed with loose ends and unfinished edges left flapping. This novel was largely an exception to that complaint. I was pleasantly surprised to see how neatly everything tied together and circled back on itself (no pun intended). From Daniel's Alaskan upbringing, to his comic book art, to his wife's classes - it all wove together into a complete whole. Because I've never read Dante, I can't comment on how well Picoult manages to replicate the ten circles of Hell, but enough was explained in the text that even those readers with gaping holes in their education (like myself!) are able to keep up. ...more First, the storyline is not what I thought it was going to be. I thought it was going to be more about the rape case (judicially), and the family making it through that. Second, I found this a tough topic, being that I have a daughter entering 9th grade. The first 2/3 of this book, I couldnt put down. I thought for sure that Jason commited suicide. It made sense that he would commmit suicide, being that she tested positive for the drug. Then I wondered...now what? How can the story continue?...he' First, the storyline is not what I thought it was going to be. I thought it was going to be more about the rape case (judicially), and the family making it through that. Second, I found this a tough topic, being that I have a daughter entering 9th grade. The first 2/3 of this book, I couldnt put down. I thought for sure that Jason commited suicide. It made sense that he would commmit suicide, being that she tested positive for the drug. Then I wondered...now what? How can the story continue?...he's dead. That's when they realize he was murdered. I questioned early on that Trixie was the one to do it. I was disappointed in the last couple chapters of the book. That the story ends in Alaska...I found alot of the end was unnecessary rambling about Alaska. I was surprised with the encounter Trixie has with Willie, especially after recently being raped....seemed unrealistic to me. But also showed that she was going to be \"okay\". I'm not a big fan of comic strips either, so that kind of bored me. I felt it ended abruptly, with questions unanswered. Overall, it kept my interest and I couldnt put it down...I wanted the answers...unfortunately, I didnt like the way some of them were delivered. I cant decide between 3 or 4 stars. If you asked me during the first 2/3's of the book, I would give it 4 or 5 stars. After getting to the end of the book (3/3.5stars) ...more While this book may not be one of Jodi Picoult's best novels, it is nonetheless a very enthralling read. The novel gives you both the point of view from the victim and the accused. It really keeps you guessing as to exactly who is telling the truth! The tale has many completely unexpected twists in the plot that will keep you captivated. Empathetic characters, with a gripping plot, full of twists and turns, that will keep you guessing right up until the end. Fours stars! Honestly i hated this one. I hated the whole family who were the main characters. I hated them from the first time they appeared until the end of the book. A lot of the stuff that happened didn't make much sense to me, like how did the father just know that his daughter would run off to alaska? anyway, that's just my opinion but, i hated it. I borrowed \"The Tenth Circle\" from a friend, and I wanted to like it. Really, I did. And despite the fact that the plot had way too much going on, it might have been okay. But the protaginist-Trixie-ruined even that for me. *spoilers ahead* As a fourteen year old girl-the same age as Trixie-I think I'm being fair in saying she was one of the most unrealistic characters i've ever read. In fact, all the teenagers in the book seemed unrealistic. I've never heard of anybody playing \"rainbow\" or \"daisy I borrowed \"The Tenth Circle\" from a friend, and I wanted to like it. Really, I did. And despite the fact that the plot had way too much going on, it might have been okay. But the protaginist-Trixie-ruined even that for me. *spoilers ahead* As a fourteen year old girl-the same age as Trixie-I think I'm being fair in saying she was one of the most unrealistic characters i've ever read. In fact, all the teenagers in the book seemed unrealistic. I've never heard of anybody playing \"rainbow\" or \"daisy chain\" or whatever the games were called. I don't know, maybe I just don't go to the cool-kid parties where they do that kind of stuff, but it's not really an idea of a fun night for most of the people I know. And her excuse of not wearing underwear because of her low-rise jeans? Hello! It's called a thong, sweetie! Not to mention the fact that she totally lied to everyone around her multiple times and then expected them to beleive her. Ever heard of the boy who cried wolf? Trixie was also extremely melodramatic. She was super pretty, super popular and had a great personality, yet she find's a reason to angst away all because her boyfriend broke up with her. Cry me a river! I'm not saying you shouldn't be sad, but I think starting to cut is taking it a little far, and is kind of insulting to people who've struggled with cutting for legit reasons, not just breaking up with their silly sixteen year old boyfriend. And, oh, by the way, the glass just happend to be \"the perfect shape of a tear\" was so laughably over dramatic I actually had to wonder what came over Jodi Piccoult and possesed her to write that. So, all in all, this book was ruined for me by the silly, angsty teenage protaginist. Better luck next time, Jodi. ...more Obiteljska tragedija koja \u0107e \u0161okirati roditelje! \u201cMogu\u0107e je da \u010dudo nije ne\u0161to \u0161to se dogodi, ve\u0107 ne\u0161to \u0161to se ne dogodi.\u201d Veliki sam fan Jodi Picoult jo\u0161 od \u010ditanja njene knjige \u201c\u010cuvarica sestre svoje\u201d prema kojoj je snimljen istoimeni film. Autorica pi\u0161e divne knjige s naglaskom na realisti\u010dnoj fikciji, obiteljskoj drami te tragi\u010dnim situacijama s kojima se ljudi ne rijetko susre\u0107u. \u201cPonekad nam se \u017eelje ostvare. A ponekad je to najgore \u0161to nam se mo\u017ee dogoditi.\u201d Trixie je \u010detrnaestogodi\u0161njakinja Obiteljska tragedija koja \u0107e \u0161okirati roditelje! \u201cMogu\u0107e je da \u010dudo nije ne\u0161to \u0161to se dogodi, ve\u0107 ne\u0161to \u0161to se ne dogodi.\u201d Veliki sam fan Jodi Picoult jo\u0161 od \u010ditanja njene knjige \u201c\u010cuvarica sestre svoje\u201d prema kojoj je snimljen istoimeni film. Autorica pi\u0161e divne knjige s naglaskom na realisti\u010dnoj fikciji, obiteljskoj drami te tragi\u010dnim situacijama s kojima se ljudi ne rijetko susre\u0107u. \u201cPonekad nam se \u017eelje ostvare. A ponekad je to najgore \u0161to nam se mo\u017ee dogoditi.\u201d Trixie je \u010detrnaestogodi\u0161njakinja koju ostavlja de\u010dko. Bili su popularan par u \u0161koli, a ona se, tako mlada, ne zna nositi sa slomljenim srcem. Kako u\u017easno pati, jednoga dana u bijesu razbije ogledalo te namjerno zare\u017ee ruku jer joj fizi\u010dka bol pru\u017ea osje\u0107aj da se ona psihi\u010dka, barem trenutno, smanjila. Jadna i o\u010dajna, odlazi na tulum gdje \u0107e biti Jason, de\u010dko za kojim pati te prihva\u0107a prijedlog najbolje prijateljice da se odjene provokativno te koketira sa svima \u2013 neka poka\u017ee biv\u0161em da se odli\u010dno zabavlja pa \u0107e on po\u017ealiti svoju odluku. Pri kraju samog tuluma, kada je ve\u0107ina ve\u0107 oti\u0161la ku\u0107i, pijana i izmorena Trixie shva\u0107a kako je plan uspio \u2013 Jason joj pristupa te ona misli da je razlog njegova \u017eelja za pomirbom, no gorko se vara. Jason iskori\u0161tava njeno povjerenje i \u010dinjenicu da su pijani i sami, te je siluje. \u201cKao dijete bojala se mraka. Vrata ormara morala su biti \u010dvrsto zatvorena, sa stolicom pod kvakom da \u010dudovi\u0161ta ne bi iza\u0161la van. Pokriva\u010d bi navukla do vrata da je vrag ne bi zgrabio. A spavala je na trbuhu da vampir ne bi do\u0161ao i probo joj kolcem srce. Mnogo godina kasnije jo\u0161 se uvijek bojala \u2013 ne no\u0107i, nego dana koji su slijedili jedan za drugim, i nije im se nazirao kraj.\u201d Ubrzo joj se svijet okre\u0107e naglava\u010dke. Njena najve\u0107a \u017eelja postala je najgora no\u0107na mora. Gomila svjedoka potvr\u0111uje kako je Trixie na tulum do\u0161la odjevena u odje\u0107u koja jedva pokriva najnu\u017enije, potom je koketirala sa svim de\u010dkima, nekima \u010dak zavr\u0161ila u krilu, napila se te igrala poker na svla\u010denje. Svi znaju koliko je patila za Jasonom i koliko ga je \u017eeljela namamiti natrag. Ubrzo po\u010dinju uvrede na njen ra\u010dun kako je sve izmislila, kako je sama to htjela te je nepravedno optu\u017eila \u201czlatnog de\u010dka\u201d jer je nije htio natrag. Tako\u0111er, neke je \u010dinjenice pre\u0161utila policiji \u0161to joj se obije o glavu te se zapli\u0107e u klupko la\u017ei iz kojih je te\u0161ko iza\u0107i. Svijet joj se ru\u0161i, gubi prijatelje, a mo\u017eda \u010dak i zdrav razum. \u201cNije bila slu\u010dajnost da strah mo\u017ee dovesti osobu do krajnosti, polako kao i ljubav. Ti su osje\u0107aji kao blizanci: ako ne zna\u0161 \u0161to \u0107e\u0161 izgubiti, nema\u0161 se za \u0161to boriti.\u201d Ovu te\u0161ku temu autorica vje\u0161to prati iz nekoliko perspektiva, pa tako saznajemo pri\u010du same Trixie, ali i njenih roditelja. Majka joj je upravo okon\u010dala aferu i priznala sve mu\u017eu, a on se, uz obitelj u rasulu, bori protiv vlastitih duhova pro\u0161losti koju \u017eeli pod svaku cijenu sakriti od najmilijih. Uz mno\u0161tvo zapleta oko ovog slu\u010daja silovanja, u pri\u010du su upleteni i doga\u0111aji iz pro\u0161losti pojedinih likova \u0161to misterij \u010dini jo\u0161 ve\u0107im. Time je psiholo\u0161ka karakterizacija uistinu vrhunska jer nam daje pogled u dubinu \u2013 mnoge su davno zaboravljene situacije zaslu\u017ene upravo za onakav rasplet doga\u0111aja kakav se dogodio, jer likovi su kompleksni te korijene svog pona\u0161anja i reakcija vuku iz djetinjstva. \u201cNo pokazalo se da pakao nije promatranje voljene sobe koja pati; pakao je drugi \u010din, kad je ve\u0107 prekasno da se bilo \u0161to u\u010dini.\u201d U ovoj \u0107ete obiteljskoj drami mo\u0107i sagledati tragediju iz vi\u0161e perspektiva, \u0161to pri\u010du \u010dini jako zanimljivom i uvjerljivom. Mo\u017eda je \u010dudno re\u0107i da \u0107ete u ovoj knjizi zbilja u\u017eivati, ali ima ne\u0161to u pisanju Jodi Picoult \u0161to vas natjera da se pribli\u017eite likovima kao da ih sami poznajete. Tako\u0111er, njen knji\u017eevni izra\u017eaj je od visoke vrijednosti a citati koje je po\u017eeljno izdvojiti plju\u0161tat \u0107e jedan za drugim. Pouke koje ova pri\u010da vu\u010de sa sobom su mnoge. Od toga kako je te\u0161ko biti tinejd\u017eer i sazrijevati do same tematike silovanja i ukazivanja na \u010dinjenicu kako je te\u0161ko dokazivo te \u017ertva mo\u017ee postati meta maltretiranja, a da ne spominjem kakav je utjecaj toga na one najbli\u017ee \u017ertvi \u2013 roditelje. Tako\u0111er je prikazano kako svaka medalja ima dvije strane te uz mno\u0161tvo zapleta do samog kraja ne \u0107ete znati potpunu istinu. \u201cSvi mi \u017eelimo znati \u0161to je po\u0161lo po zlu, \u010dak i kad zapravo nema odgovora.\u201d \u201cDeseti krug\u201d Jodi Picoult nije me nimalo razo\u010darao, samo je potvrda da je ovo vrlo kvalitetna autorica koja umije dodirnuti srca \u010ditatelja i natjerati ih da se dobro zamisle. Preporu\u010dam svima koji vole realisti\u010dnu fikciju, obiteljske drame i misterije. https://www.facebook.com/210901922419... ...more This book is pure popcorn; the sort of thing you read not for the writing or the social impact, but because the story is like a soap opera you can't quite quit. Granted, I thought her vignettes about family life were compelling and well-written, and touched upon the feelings a family unit generates; and her descriptions of the father-daughter, mother-daughter, mother-father dynamic were really nice... but the over all book wasn't really literature. A good weekend read. The interspersion of comic This book is pure popcorn; the sort of thing you read not for the writing or the social impact, but because the story is like a soap opera you can't quite quit. Granted, I thought her vignettes about family life were compelling and well-written, and touched upon the feelings a family unit generates; and her descriptions of the father-daughter, mother-daughter, mother-father dynamic were really nice... but the over all book wasn't really literature. A good weekend read. The interspersion of comic book pages was really interesting also (but I think only interesting to me because I'm an illustrator), if a little kitsch. The plot was just not unified, nor was the tone of the book. It was like she had several different ideas/books that she tried to meld into one\u2026 so it wasn\u2019t cohesive and thus her message/moral was a little blurry. I give it two stars because it wasn't totally devoid of value - I was moderately entertained, but this was cancelled out by the book\u2019s indecisiveness. I wanted to scream, \u201cWhat am I reading? A crime-mystery-thriller? A magical-realism piece? A family drama?\u201d In the end, the book rode the fence on all these genres, and suffered for it. ...more joy is my new book supplier, so i'm not-so-slowly working my way through her jodi picoult collection. so far this was my favorite of the three picoult books i've read. firstly, i really liked the comic book theme and the references to Dante's Inferno throughout the book. starting every chapter with a snippit of the Daniel's comic book was a great way to move the story along, through his eyes and mind. though i have to admit, i figured out the ending about half way through the novel...picoult's boo joy is my new book supplier, so i'm not-so-slowly working my way through her jodi picoult collection. so far this was my favorite of the three picoult books i've read. firstly, i really liked the comic book theme and the references to Dante's Inferno throughout the book. starting every chapter with a snippit of the Daniel's comic book was a great way to move the story along, through his eyes and mind. though i have to admit, i figured out the ending about half way through the novel...picoult's books are a bit formulaic. i didn't much care. she's a great author who really knows how to get you inside the mind of a modern family, and experience it's struggles from all sides. i particularly liked the character of Daniel in this novel. i found him to be extremely real, hiding the darker secrets from his past in Alaska (violence, rage, death) in order to keep his family together as a unit. how that backfired! anyway...i thought this book was very well written, great story, great characters. ...more I recently read The Tenth Circle by Jodi Picoult. On the surface the Stone family seems normal and perfect, but as the story continues their relationship falls apart. Daniel works at home as a comic book artist to be a stay at home dad for Trixie, while his wife Laura is a full time college professor. Daniel and Laura seem to put their daughter Trixie before everything else in life until the one time she actually needs her parents they aren\u2019t by her side like she needs them to be. When the wors I recently read The Tenth Circle by Jodi Picoult. On the surface the Stone family seems normal and perfect, but as the story continues their relationship falls apart. Daniel works at home as a comic book artist to be a stay at home dad for Trixie, while his wife Laura is a full time college professor. Daniel and Laura seem to put their daughter Trixie before everything else in life until the one time she actually needs her parents they aren\u2019t by her side like she needs them to be. When the worst happens to their daughter the truth comes out about each family member and the relationship they have with each other, Daniel who sees Trixie growing up too fast right in front of him, by the way she dresses, her older boyfriend, and the crowd she\u2019s now friends with just go on to prove his assumptions are right. Trixie realizes her mother isn\u2019t the woman she once saw her as, she\u2019s not as close to her as she once was because her mom becomes engulfed in her career among other things besides not staying truthful to her own husband. And all things are revealed when Laura finally cracks and tells Daniel what she\u2019s really been doing when she says she\u2019s working late. Just when you thought that the book was going to have a total focus on Trixie and the hardships she goes through, the book turns and all focus is turned to the rest of the family too. After reading this book it really helped in the realization that no one is perfect. Just when you thought that there might be a so called \u201cperfect\u201d family there is no such thing. Everyone makes mistakes and its something that you learn from, but how you handle the situation and what you become afterwards is what\u2019s going to help you as a person in the end. ...more There\u2019s a surprise at the end of this book that I wish I had known about before I started reading. The Tenth Circle is a metaphorical journey through Dante's Inferno, told through the eyes of a small Maine family whose hidden demons haunt every aspect of their seemingly peaceful existence. Woven throughout the novel are a series of dramatic illustrations that pay homage to the family's patriarch, comic book artist Daniel Stone, and add a unique twist to this gripping story. Trixie Stone is an im There\u2019s a surprise at the end of this book that I wish I had known about before I started reading. The Tenth Circle is a metaphorical journey through Dante's Inferno, told through the eyes of a small Maine family whose hidden demons haunt every aspect of their seemingly peaceful existence. Woven throughout the novel are a series of dramatic illustrations that pay homage to the family's patriarch, comic book artist Daniel Stone, and add a unique twist to this gripping story. Trixie Stone is an imaginative, perceptive 14 year old whose life begins to unravel when Jason Underhill, Bethel High's star hockey player, breaks up with her, leaving a void that can only be filled by the blood spilled during shameful self-mutilations in the girls' bathroom. While Trixie's dad Daniel notices his daughter's recent change in demeanor, he turns a blind eye, just as he does to the obvious affair his wife Laura, a college professor, is barely trying to conceal. When Trixie gets raped at a friend's party, Daniel and Laura are forced to deal not only with the consequences of their daughter's physical and emotional trauma, but with their own transgressions as well. For Daniel, that means reflecting on a childhood spent as the only white kid in a native Alaskan village, where isolation and loneliness turned him into a recluse, only to be born again after falling in love with his wife. Laura, who blames her family's unraveling on her selfish affair, must decide how to reconcile her personal desires with her loved ones' needs. ...more First, what I like about The Tenth Circle : Like the only other Jodi Picoult book I've read ( My Sister's Keeper ), I think the author does a really good job of picking interesting subject matter, and presents it in a compelling way. (As the mother of both a son and two daughters, I found the subject of this particular book to be thought-provoking. Was the 14-year-old protagonist raped, or not?) Picoult does an outstanding job of showing the flaws of her characters, and I think it's the highest com First, what I like about The Tenth Circle : Like the only other Jodi Picoult book I've read ( My Sister's Keeper ), I think the author does a really good job of picking interesting subject matter, and presents it in a compelling way. (As the mother of both a son and two daughters, I found the subject of this particular book to be thought-provoking. Was the 14-year-old protagonist raped, or not?) Picoult does an outstanding job of showing the flaws of her characters, and I think it's the highest compliment to her to say that you are not always going to like her main characters. I also like the unique way she presents her book, with the story interspersed with the graphic novel...it was a fun way to link everything together. Now what I don't like: I thought there were a number of threads that were dropped--the outcome of the situation with Laura and Seth, the introduction of the Willie Moses character, and also the circumstances regarding Cane's death. And I felt that the situation at the end was presented as a \"well, that's that\" kind of ending, when it was way more complicated than that. Overall, a good but not GREAT, book. ...more I wasn't overly fond of this book, and am surpised at all of the raving reviews. I am wondering if I missed something along the way? I found that she overworked Dante's Inferno and the little bits of graphic novel merely restated what the reader already knew. I know that the author was trying to show how the lines could bnlur on the typically black-and-white issue of rape, but i felt that she was more biased towards Trixie. In the end we find out that Trixie did nothing to stop Jason, and that f I wasn't overly fond of this book, and am surpised at all of the raving reviews. I am wondering if I missed something along the way? I found that she overworked Dante's Inferno and the little bits of graphic novel merely restated what the reader already knew. I know that the author was trying to show how the lines could bnlur on the typically black-and-white issue of rape, but i felt that she was more biased towards Trixie. In the end we find out that Trixie did nothing to stop Jason, and that from his perspective he thought that she had consented the whole ordeal, but no one seems to care that an innocent boy died. and the author writes as if the mother was justified in killing Jason. This actually made me so mad. Yes, Trixie didn't want to have sex with Jason but she did not tell him so and therefore it is her own fault. I don't know if anyone felt the same way as me? ...more Not my favorite of Picoult's books, although I admire her attempt to try something different by the inclusion of the comic (which I skipped over. Sorry). As a writer myself, I'm well aware that not every book can be five-star worthy, and it certainly won't stop me from reading more of Picoult's work. When you read the Acknowledgements at the front of the book, you know The Tenth Circle covers a lot of territory: rape, teenagers, Dante, comic book superheroes, Alaska. Don\u2019t say she didn\u2019t say to you right off, \u201cThis was a massive undertaking\u2026\u201d No kidding, Jodi! She doesn\u2019t do easy topics. Who has ever had a boyfriend who played hockey? I mean, I grew up near Detroit so I knew about Gordy Howe, the star. But there was no hockey as a high school sport. The story is in Maine so things are evident When you read the Acknowledgements at the front of the book, you know The Tenth Circle covers a lot of territory: rape, teenagers, Dante, comic book superheroes, Alaska. Don\u2019t say she didn\u2019t say to you right off, \u201cThis was a massive undertaking\u2026\u201d No kidding, Jodi! She doesn\u2019t do easy topics. Who has ever had a boyfriend who played hockey? I mean, I grew up near Detroit so I knew about Gordy Howe, the star. But there was no hockey as a high school sport. The story is in Maine so things are evidently different there. So, with the hockey, this story seems unusual to me right from the faceoff. A boyfriend who plays hockey and is a star? And then there are the several pages of dark graphics that precede each chapter. How does that belong in a novel? I have read a lot of books but it has been a very long time since I have read illustrated reading material. Sure, there was Mad Magazine when I was a pre-teen but before that it was illustrated picture books when I was in elementary school. That is a long time ago. So I am not sure, Jodi Picoult, that I am ready for this. I picked this book because I wanted an easy read and figured it was time to read a Picoult book again. I had gotten this book on GR swap site so you know that it has been on my shelf for a while. The last one I read was in May, 2012. That is plenty of time between chick lit selections! Besides, I like Jodi Picoult and her collection of social issues. The Tenth Circle has a modest GR rating of 3.39 with just under 60,000 opinions. Looks like people don\u2019t think this is one of her better books based on the ratings. Most of her other books rate higher, many quite a bit higher. It was the middle of the third page of reviews before I came to a male reviewer. That was both surprising and not surprising to me. It is labeled as chick lit which is kind of like saying, \u201cMen keep away!\u201d But this is my fourth Picoult book and I have enjoyed them so far. Like I said, one every six or eight months is about right. It was that she truly believed that you could be fourteen when you learned how love could change the speed your blood ran through you, how it made your dreams in kaleidoscope color. It was that Trixie knew she couldn\u2019t have loved Jason this hard if he hadn\u2019t loved her that way too. OK, it\u2019s a little corny at times. And Trixie does sound like a chick lit name, I guess. In fact, Picoult does seem to have a thing about names: Alpha, Aine, Naryan. Makes Seth almost seem normal. I notice that this page with all the unusual names has had the corner turned down to save the place. Well, that makes sense. You might be thinking (maybe Jodi would say dreaming) about what to name your first child. I love it when you are reading a used book that gives you evidence of prior use like having the corners of pages turned down. That is the best thing about a library book. You know that a few people (or more) have read the book before you. You are not alone! I bought a used ex-library book that still had the card in the pocket at the back of the book with the names of people who had checked the book out. What could be better than that? The juxtaposition of the words in the story with the story in the graphics is a like-but-not-quite new experience for me. It has been a long time since I have read comics, even the ones in the newspapers. I read the local paper online but there are still the comics in color. I ignore them. When I was a kid The Detroit Free Press went on strike for several months. When they came back they printed three months of cartoons. It was overload. As I recall my favorite comic was Dondi, a World War II orphan. It ran in more than 100 newspapers for three decades (September 25, 1955 to June 8, 1986). I don\u2019t remember why I stopped reading Dondi. Probably I just grew up. It happens. There are many paragraphs in this book that I would like to quote: Parents didn't take their baby trolling the streets after midnight. They didn't live out of the back of a car. They couldn't buy formula and cereal and clothes with happenstance cash that dribbled in from sketches done here and there. Although Daniel could currently pull Laura like a tide to the moon, she couldn't imagine them together ten years from now. She was forced to consider the startling fact that the love of her life might not actually be someone with whom she could spend a lifetime. Before starting the book I read a few GR reviews, especially some one and two star reviews. As a result I am almost embarrassed to say that I generally enjoyed reading this book and found the writing occasionally to have some impressive aspects. It is not as \u2018brainy\u2019 as many books I read but maybe it is just at a comprehension and reading level that works better for me. I don\u2019t have to work so hard to understand what is going on and my brain thanks me for that by letting me have an enjoyable experience. Ironically, although this book has a lot of tension, I felt comfortable reading it. I thought the Alaska adventure towards the end was pretty lame and couldn\u2019t buy this being a fourteen year old adventure. Is it true that if two people (even teenagers apparently) fear they are freezing to death, they should take off all their clothes and snuggle together? I\u2019m serious. See page 322 in the trade paperback edition! The following is what Google found for me: At 85 degrees [body temperature], those freezing to death, in a strange, anguished paroxysm, often rip off their clothes. This phenomenon, known as paradoxical undressing, is common enough that urban hypothermia victims are sometimes initially diagnosed as victims of sexual assault. Though researchers are uncertain of the cause, the most logical explanation is that shortly before loss of consciousness, the constricted blood vessels near the body's surface suddenly dilate and produce a sensation of extreme heat against the skin. Source: http://www.outsideonline.com/outdoor-... If you ever wanted to read about \u201cthe cold, hard facts about freezing to death,\u201d this is one place to go. Now, where were we? Sorry for the diversion. I just don\u2019t see a fourteen year old in this picture. Jodi has hidden a message in the graphics. She says at the end of the book that \u201cthe letters spell out a quotation that sums theme\u201d of the book. You could try to find the letters in the graphics like she suggests or you could look up the answer on her web site or you can simply click the \u201cspoiler\u201d and it will all become clear. The decision is yours. (view spoiler) [ \u201cNothing is easier than self deceit for what each man wishes that he also believes to be true\u201d \u2013 DEMOSTHENES (hide spoiler) ] The Tenth Circle has some pretty good paragraphs and even some pretty good pages. But I am thinking that this will be my last Jodi Picoult book because it just wasn\u2019t that good from beginning to end. I think there were some good hints at what it is like to be a teenager in love or just a teenager period and that was interesting for a geezer like me. But I can only go to three stars in good conscience. I want to be able to go to sleep tonight. ...more 3.5 Stars For those familiar with Jodi Picoult\u2019s work, it should come as no surprise that this novel canvasses socially relevant and controversial subject matter. Her portrayal of the modern teenager\u2019s life seems simultaneously shocking and compelling. Trixie Stone is the fourteen year old only child of a devoted stay-at-home father and a professional mother who remain married to one another. Underneath this fa\u00e7ade of an idyllic family, however, there is a certain level of dysfunction. Fourteen y 3.5 Stars For those familiar with Jodi Picoult\u2019s work, it should come as no surprise that this novel canvasses socially relevant and controversial subject matter. Her portrayal of the modern teenager\u2019s life seems simultaneously shocking and compelling. Trixie Stone is the fourteen year old only child of a devoted stay-at-home father and a professional mother who remain married to one another. Underneath this fa\u00e7ade of an idyllic family, however, there is a certain level of dysfunction. Fourteen year old Trixie finds herself struggling with the pressures and realities of being a teenager in current times. In particular, she is struggling with the loss of her first boyfriend in a social context where teens no longer seem to experience sexual activity within the context of exclusive relationships and random hook-ups seem to be the norm. In her world, her peers experience sex, drugs, and alcohol simultaneously which is a recipe for catastrophe. It is in this context that tragedy strikes Trixie and ultimately her family and the story unfolds. There are some central themes explored in this novel, and one that resonates with me is the fact that people are constantly changing and becoming new people. At any moment in time, we are quite possibly not the person that we were yesterday and this makes us to some extent unknowable even to the people closest to us. Trixie, Laura, and Daniel Stone all have parts of themselves that are hidden and unknown to one another. I found this reading selection timely given the recent suicide of Rehteah Parsons. The issues canvassed are pressing and relevant and that alone makes it a worthwhile read in my opinion. That said, I was a little disappointed in the ending. ...more This book was an amazing read. Told from the point of view of the girls father, it tells the story of a family who's life is thrown apart by the daughters cry of rape. The father, a comic book writer, tells his side, worries and thoughts through his newest comic book story - the hero a father who is thrust into the layers of hell to try and bring his kidnapped daughter back to him. Entering as a man, once he enters he finds it is not himself that entered hell at all, but a beast, an animal - one This book was an amazing read. Told from the point of view of the girls father, it tells the story of a family who's life is thrown apart by the daughters cry of rape. The father, a comic book writer, tells his side, worries and thoughts through his newest comic book story - the hero a father who is thrust into the layers of hell to try and bring his kidnapped daughter back to him. Entering as a man, once he enters he finds it is not himself that entered hell at all, but a beast, an animal - one who will do anything to save and protect his daughter. The mother, a teacher of daunte's inferno also plays a povitol role in this book, even before the daugher claims to have been raped by her boyfriend who has just broken up with her weeks before. Mainly, it is a book about a bond between a father and a daughter, and what parents will do and turn into for their children. ...more Sama tema s kojom se ova knjiga hvata uko\u0161tac - silovanje - vrlo je te\u0161ka, pomalo i tabu, ali mislim da ju je Jodi Picoult hrabro iznijela, isti\u010du\u0107i sve probleme s kojima se \u017ertve silovanja u svojim \u017eivotima svakodnevno susre\u0107u. I\u0161la bih toliko daleko da bih rekla da ova knjiga na neki na\u010din podi\u017ee svijest o \u017ertvama silovanja i (nepravednom?) na\u010dinu na koji se dru\u0161tvo prema njima postavlja. Doti\u010de se i one aktualne problematike toga da 'ne' zna\u010di 'ne', bez obzira kako \u017ertva bila obu\u010dena, u kakvo Sama tema s kojom se ova knjiga hvata uko\u0161tac - silovanje - vrlo je te\u0161ka, pomalo i tabu, ali mislim da ju je Jodi Picoult hrabro iznijela, isti\u010du\u0107i sve probleme s kojima se \u017ertve silovanja u svojim \u017eivotima svakodnevno susre\u0107u. I\u0161la bih toliko daleko da bih rekla da ova knjiga na neki na\u010din podi\u017ee svijest o \u017ertvama silovanja i (nepravednom?) na\u010dinu na koji se dru\u0161tvo prema njima postavlja. Doti\u010de se i one aktualne problematike toga da 'ne' zna\u010di 'ne', bez obzira kako \u017ertva bila obu\u010dena, u kakvom je odnosu sa (potencijalnim) po\u010diniteljem i kako se prethodno pona\u0161ala. Danas se, na\u017ealost, \u010desto opravdava ili umanjuje sam zlo\u010din silovanja, isti\u010du\u0107i kako je 'ona to sama htjela', 'da nije ne bi bila tako obu\u010dena', 'nije izri\u010dito rekla ne' i tako dalje, i tako dalje. U vezi toga mislim da ova knjiga zauzima stav, stav da je silovanje stra\u0161no, da za njega nema opravdanja, da 'ne' zna\u010di 'ne' i da je jo\u0161 stra\u0161nije sve ono kroz \u0161to \u017ertve moraju pro\u0107i nakon silovanja a da bi dokazale da su \u017ertve. Picoult je to savr\u0161eno prikazala u dvije re\u010denice: \"Ve\u0107ina ljudi nije shva\u0107ala, osim ako nisu bili iz policije, da su i \u017ertva silovanja i \u017ertva prometne nesre\u0107e zauvijek izgubljene. Razlika je bila u tome \u0161to se \u017ertva silovanja jo\u0161 uvijek morala pona\u0161ati kao da je \u017eiva.\" No, kao \u0161to sam ve\u0107 spomenula, ni\u0161ta nije crno i bijelo, pa tako ni sam slu\u010daj silovanja oko kojeg se radnja vrti. Dok likovi pri\u010daju o tome \u0161to se dogodilo, cijeli slu\u010daj imamo prilike sagledati iz vi\u0161e kuteva. Picoult malo-pomalo raspli\u0107e pravu istinu, dodaju\u0107i samo jedan po jedan odgovor u danom trenutku, i usput nam bacaju\u0107i komadi\u0107e pro\u0161losti povezane s nekim od likova. Na\u010din na koji je slagana \u010dini ovu knjigu ujedno i misterijem, \u010diju kona\u010dnu sliku mo\u017eemo u cjelosti vidjeti tek nakon \u0161to sve komadi\u0107e pro\u0161losti prikupimo na hrpu, pove\u017eemo s pravim likovima i slo\u017eimo pravim redoslijedom. Time pri\u010da kao da dobiva jo\u0161 jednu dimenziju, a \u010dinjenica da svaki lik usput skriva i neku svoju, vlastitu pri\u010du, \u010dini je jo\u0161 zanimljivijom za \u010ditanje. Kompletna recenzija je na Imaginariju ...more The story involves a very interesting rape case. This is my first time reading a rape case wherein there's a big part of me who thinks that the rape victim is annoying and I am actually rooting for the rapist. The sweetheart defense is really strong and it's hard to tell who's lying and who's telling the truth. Jodi Picoult is really good at this and it really makes me think hard about what is really going on. There are a lot of twists and turns that makes the story more exciting and engaging. I The story involves a very interesting rape case. This is my first time reading a rape case wherein there's a big part of me who thinks that the rape victim is annoying and I am actually rooting for the rapist. The sweetheart defense is really strong and it's hard to tell who's lying and who's telling the truth. Jodi Picoult is really good at this and it really makes me think hard about what is really going on. There are a lot of twists and turns that makes the story more exciting and engaging. I already read four of her books (My Sister's Keeper, Nineteen Minutes, The Pact and the Plain Truth) and it feels good that although there are a lot of elements that are still the same I still find this one interesting from her other works. What I like about it is that the plot is well thought out compared to Plain Truth, indeed its plot is very fluid. I like the comic strip parts of the books even though they are fillers, they are nice fillers. I like the Dante's references and how it connects with the storyline. My only complaint is that I find the ending not satisfying because it lacks closure. I think Jodi Picoult's novels are limited with word count because the story is already really long and maybe she can't write the continuation anymore so it ended that way. I feel bad that there is no court drama in this novel and majority of it is focused on investigation. However, I still find this novel thought-provoking and well written. ...more The first 2/3 of the book was great and then the last part kind of drug out. Maybe that is because it was so easy to see 'who did it'. The story is about Trixie, a 14 year old who commits her former lover of rape. The boy of course denies the rape stating it was consensual. It later comes out that she had the date rape drug in her system and he will be tried as an adult which will likely mean jail time. He is so distraught, he commits suicide by jumping off a bridge or so they thought. It was at t The first 2/3 of the book was great and then the last part kind of drug out. Maybe that is because it was so easy to see 'who did it'. The story is about Trixie, a 14 year old who commits her former lover of rape. The boy of course denies the rape stating it was consensual. It later comes out that she had the date rape drug in her system and he will be tried as an adult which will likely mean jail time. He is so distraught, he commits suicide by jumping off a bridge or so they thought. It was at this point the book starts to drag. We are taken into her Dads life in an Eskimo village and there are all these deeper hidden meanings about 'do you really know yourself'. In the end, Trixie was not raped, it was consensual but she was wanting to get back with Jason. Her Mom was the one to throw Jason off the bridge. ...more Having worked my way through almost all of Jodi Picoult's books, I anticipated an exciting and provocative read with this book. However, unlike the majority of her novels I sit firmly on the fence with this one: I found the first fifty percent of the book riveting and then my attention began to waver and I lost interest in the storyline the further it got towards the end. The beauty of Picoult novels is that she focuses on emotive subjects and creates very real situations in her storylines. In Th Having worked my way through almost all of Jodi Picoult's books, I anticipated an exciting and provocative read with this book. However, unlike the majority of her novels I sit firmly on the fence with this one: I found the first fifty percent of the book riveting and then my attention began to waver and I lost interest in the storyline the further it got towards the end. The beauty of Picoult novels is that she focuses on emotive subjects and creates very real situations in her storylines. In The Tenth Circle, we meet troubled teen Trixie and her equally troubled parents, Laura and Daniel. One night, Trixie is the victim of a horrific sexual assault at the hands of her ex boyfriend; naturally, her parents are devastated and demand justice. Whilst trying to hold together their own marriage, Laura and Daniel must unite to unravel the tangled web of what really happened to their young daughter. As I mentioned earlier, I found the first half of the book gripping as we learn about the crime. The second half of the book was really quite disappointing, I lost focus on the characters and found Trixie's actions to be quite unrealistic. Minor spoiler alert: she runs away to Alaska. How am I supposed to believe a fourteen-year-old girl, unaccompanied, is able to board a plane and stow away to the end of the earth? The novel is peppered with comic-book style pictures; Daniel is a successful artist and his stories echo the troubles with his family. With no interest in comic book art, I found myself skipping these pages and didn't feel like I missed out on anything of any real importance to the story I was reading. An okay read if you are able to look past the rather muddled second-half of the book. There are far better Picoult books, in my opinion. My favourite, The Storyteller, is a must-read. ...more Well That Left a Dirty Taste in My Mouth Jodi Picoult novels are a bit of a guilty pleasure. The first one I read, \"My Sister's Keeper\" touched me. After that I've read several that I found entertaining enough, but nothing special, like Vanishing Acts. Plain Truth and the Pact felt like reading almost the same book. And then I read \"The Tenth Circle.\" The story of Trixie and her boyfriend and the rape she accuses him of upset me. First of all, Trixie lies to the police, several times. She herself Well That Left a Dirty Taste in My Mouth Jodi Picoult novels are a bit of a guilty pleasure. The first one I read, \"My Sister's Keeper\" touched me. After that I've read several that I found entertaining enough, but nothing special, like Vanishing Acts. Plain Truth and the Pact felt like reading almost the same book. And then I read \"The Tenth Circle.\" The story of Trixie and her boyfriend and the rape she accuses him of upset me. First of all, Trixie lies to the police, several times. She herself brought the date rape drug to the party - though she doesn't know how she ended up consuming it - and then lets the police believe her ex-boyfriend drugged her. There is no suggestion that her ex-boyfriend had any idea that the drugs were even at the party, much less gave them to her. She didn't say no (because by then the drug made her incapable.) A tie was made in the novel to the Yup'ik natives in Alaska, amongst whom her father was raised, and how to them, wishes unspoken were still real. However, the ex-boyfriend kills himself or is killed by one of the family members when his whole life disappears in front of him - he loses his scholarship to play hockey and finds out he will be tried as an adult. With the tendency in society for people to disbelieve accusations of rape, I found the plotline of this novel a disturbing one. ...more", "Title": "The Tenth Circle"},
