{"Comments": "\u201cWhy demand that I go back there when he had no intention of doing anything with me? I wondered what it would take to get him going. What could I do to stir him up? This was turning into a challenge \u2013 and I just couldn\u2019t resist a challenge.\u201d First of all, I really loved the fact that the restaurant is based in Kensington, London, since I\u2019ve been planning a trip to England this year and that\u2019s where I\u2019ll be staying, but let\u2019s not get sidetracked. I really enjoyed this steamy little story. The conn \u201cWhy demand that I go back there when he had no intention of doing anything with me? I wondered what it would take to get him going. What could I do to stir him up? This was turning into a challenge \u2013 and I just couldn\u2019t resist a challenge.\u201d First of all, I really loved the fact that the restaurant is based in Kensington, London, since I\u2019ve been planning a trip to England this year and that\u2019s where I\u2019ll be staying, but let\u2019s not get sidetracked. I really enjoyed this steamy little story. The connections formed in Amatore\u2019s Restaurant are filled with sensuality and are very provocative. Each character has their own story and I really liked how they were told in their own point of views. The stories were always intertwined with people from the dining hall and didn\u2019t break connection. The characters were well written and their stories were delectably surprising. My favorite story was titled Bodywork where a strong headed actress meets a mechanic that leaves her all hot and bothered. This is not just an erotic book (<---B>although it has plenty of that</---B>), it is a collection of sexual liaisons that are tastefully told, and are also filled with a sense of intrigue that will keep you engaged to the very end. ...more Oh my, what a steamy little book Mr. Silwood has written! I normally steer clear of erotic fiction but Amatore's Restaurant is different. The story is told through a few POVs, each taking place in a different city in Europe, but they all come together at Amatore's Restaurant. I especially enjoyed the character of Cordelia, aspiring actress. Such a sly lady who wants to be in control. And having lived and travelled to many of the cities mentioned in the book (I love Berlin!),<---M> I really appreciated Oh my</---M>, what a steamy little book Mr. Silwood has written! I normally steer clear of erotic fiction but Amatore's Restaurant is different. The story is told through a few POVs, each taking place in a different city in Europe, but they all come together at Amatore's Restaurant. I especially enjoyed the character of Cordelia, aspiring actress. Such a sly lady who wants to be in control. And having lived and travelled to many of the cities mentioned in the book (I love Berlin!), I really appreciated the author's ability to bring the settings to life, triggering in me such fond memories of those places. Warning: this are quite a few sex scenes in the book, which I expected.<---F> They were well executed and tasteful</---F>. At no point did I feel it was trashy. In fact I think it's quite tame compared to some of the other stuff you can find here. Overall I have no complaints about the writing, aside from the bizarre change in POV at the beginning of the story from first to third-person. It was such a pleasure to read this book, and I could tell the author really enjoyed writing it. I received a free copy of this book for an honest review. ...more <+++>Secret Deceptions</+++> by <---A>James Sillwood</---A> was a great read. I liked that it wasn't about just one person or couple. It was about numerous people/couples in Europe. Each person has their own different sexual scenario. Every single one was different, which was a nice change. By the end of the book every character was tied together in some way at Amatore's Restaurant so they aren't just talking about random people on the street. This book could never be considered boring because it was constantly changin <+++>Secret Deceptions</+++> by James Sillwood was a great read. I liked that it wasn't about just one person or couple. It was about numerous people/couples in Europe. Each person has their own different sexual scenario. Every single one was different, which was a nice change. By the end of the book every character was tied together in some way at Amatore's Restaurant so they aren't just talking about random people on the street. This book could never be considered boring because it was constantly changing. Changing people and every story was unique. It was multiple stories that by the end had been tied up into one. I have never read a book like this and have to say I was pleasantly surprised. The story that comes to mind the most was Cordelia and Brad. Wow the scene was hot and she knew what she wanted. I almost felt bad for Brad. Her asking if he has ever made love to a woman before, and then asking if he can remember what to do?!? Ha she's bad ass. I received this ARC for my honest review. ...more This book had me hooked instantly, mostly because each chapter was a different character. I loved each of the steamy stories and how they were told in the past and present tense. One of my favorite things about them is that they were all spread throughout Europe and I felt like this gave the book more depth. I really enjoyed the way that the characters all came together at the end and how well each story worked together. The sex scenes were hot and fun to read, but far from raunchy or over the t This book had me hooked instantly, mostly because each chapter was a different character. I loved each of the steamy stories and how they were told in the past and present tense. One of my favorite things about them is that they were all spread throughout Europe and I felt like this gave the book more depth. I really enjoyed the way that the characters all came together at the end and how well each story worked together. The sex scenes were hot and fun to read, but far from raunchy or over the top. They were simply a way to highlight each character's story. My favorite character was probably Cordelia because I really enjoyed the way she had to be in control. So many times in books I feel that the woman is a passive player in her own sexual and life experiences, but Cordelia took charge, which I liked. I also really enjoyed the dynamic between Lucia and Chiara - I felt that relationship was one of the best in the book. Overall, really fun read! ...more This is part one of three. As an aside, I love how the cover images of the three books fit together to be one beautiful woman There's to be a formal dinner at Amatore's restaurant. The story moves fast and goes back and forth between past and present. We're given backstory about several characters, a sexual encounter they had in the past with someone connected to the dinner, whether a customer or restaurant staff. I found a couple of little glitches like verbs used in present tense when they shou This is part one of three. As an aside, I love how the cover images of the three books fit together to be one beautiful woman There's to be a formal dinner at Amatore's restaurant. The story moves fast and goes back and forth between past and present. We're given backstory about several characters, a sexual encounter they had in the past with someone connected to the dinner, whether a customer or restaurant staff. I found a couple of little glitches like verbs used in present tense when they should have been in past tense, and point of view shifts were sometimes a tad confusing. However, overall the story was intriguing, with a surprise twist or two included. I especially liked the glimpses of various European locations. I received a free digital copy of this book in exchange for an honest review. ...more I got a free copy of this in exchange for an honest review. From the get go, I could tell this was an erotic story that meant business. \u2018In the dining hall at Ristorante di Amatore\u2019, immediately it had me hooked and wanting to go to Kensington London! The first chapter somehow goes from third person to first, I don\u2019t think I have ever come across that before but I don\u2019t mind it as the story flowed. Whilst I do not usually read anthology collections I was intrigued by this premise of sexy stories in I got a free copy of this in exchange for an honest review. From the get go, I could tell this was an erotic story that meant business. \u2018In the dining hall at Ristorante di Amatore\u2019, immediately it had me hooked and wanting to go to Kensington London! The first chapter somehow goes from third person to first, I don\u2019t think I have ever come across that before but I don\u2019t mind it as the story flowed. Whilst I do not usually read anthology collections I was intrigued by this premise of sexy stories in different settings. I love how the women in these stories tend take the lead, they are strong-willed, tough and in control of their sexuality. The erotic scenes are well written, hot and steamy! Thanks for the copy James, I found this be a very thorough and enjoyable read. ...more Mr. Sillwood has created an artful montage of short stories. The interesting part is that the main characters in all the stories are linked by a special dinner being held at Amatore\u2019s Restaurant. Each one tells of an erotic adventure, spurred by fantasy, and usually outside the person\u2019s normal behavior pattern. I did find the abrupt shifts between present times and flashbacks jarring and had to read over certain parts to keep track. I also noticed occasional head hopping that threw me off. But vi Mr. Sillwood has created an artful montage of short stories. The interesting part is that the main characters in all the stories are linked by a special dinner being held at Amatore\u2019s Restaurant. Each one tells of an erotic adventure, spurred by fantasy, and usually outside the person\u2019s normal behavior pattern. I did find the abrupt shifts between present times and flashbacks jarring and had to read over certain parts to keep track. I also noticed occasional head hopping that threw me off. But vivid descriptions, as well as natural sounding dialogue brought the settings and characters to life. The sex scenes were well choreographed without being either over the top or leaving more than was necessary to the imagination. Overall a good read. ...more Secret Deceptions is a collection of short erotic stories. Which are intricately woven between several POV'S and has that six degrees of separation feel to it. Due to everyone's connection to Amatore's Restaurant. In the beginning, I did find it difficult to keep track of all the characters. Especially, since it bounced back between past and present. But once I sorted it all out, it was very enjoyable. Voyeurism, straight sex, lesbianism and BDSM are all touched upon in this steamy and erotic rea Secret Deceptions is a collection of short erotic stories. Which are intricately woven between several POV'S and has that six degrees of separation feel to it. Due to everyone's connection to Amatore's Restaurant. In the beginning, I did find it difficult to keep track of all the characters. Especially, since it bounced back between past and present. But once I sorted it all out, it was very enjoyable. Voyeurism, straight sex, lesbianism and BDSM are all touched upon in this steamy and erotic read. A sexual 'fantasy' for each and every one of us to enjoy. Mr Sillwood did a wonderful job of creating diverse characters who oozed sex appeal, which kept this reader turning the pages... ...more A few weeks ago I was talking to someone about the lack of good, contemporary erotic fiction and they recommended this book. From the first page I was gripped. It's the characters who make this book. They're complicated and intriguing, often selfish and not always likeable. The book is really a set of short stories and reminds me a little bit of the writings of Anais Nin,although I would say there is more focus here on the characters. The story with Freya and Ana is very intriguing; Freya is obv A few weeks ago I was talking to someone about the lack of good, contemporary erotic fiction and they recommended this book. From the first page I was gripped. It's the characters who make this book. They're complicated and intriguing, often selfish and not always likeable. The book is really a set of short stories and reminds me a little bit of the writings of Anais Nin,although I would say there is more focus here on the characters. The story with Freya and Ana is very intriguing; Freya is obviously mentally ill and seems to have mysteries in her past. I liked the story with Pierre, a con man, who gets him comeuppance. Read and enjoy! ...more Wow! The erotic scenes in this are mind blowing and very detailed. There's voyeurism, lesbian sex, straight sex and more voyeurism. I liked Pierre, who is a villain but gets tricked in the story \"Blind Man's Bluff.He's angry about this, but he's tough and a survivor who'll carry on in his usual way.The story called Bodywork featuring Jane and the mechanic is very sexy and unpredictable too, with a clever twist at the end.Freya from the story called The Waitress' Bus Stop is a strange woman.I hav Wow! The erotic scenes in this are mind blowing and very detailed. There's voyeurism, lesbian sex, straight sex and more voyeurism. I liked Pierre, who is a villain but gets tricked in the story \"Blind Man's Bluff.He's angry about this, but he's tough and a survivor who'll carry on in his usual way.The story called Bodywork featuring Jane and the mechanic is very sexy and unpredictable too, with a clever twist at the end.Freya from the story called The Waitress' Bus Stop is a strange woman.I have the feeling she's up to something but not sure what. I liked all of these stories. ...more This volume contains some very interesting stories, all with realistic and believable characters. The sexual scenes are graphic and include voyeurism, BDSM, straight sex and lesbianism. The women in these stories tend to take the lead in exploring their sexuality. The settings are varied, including Berlin and Amsterdam. The stories are much more than sexual encounters;they contain suspense, mental illness and hints of past mysteries. An engrossing read.<---C>James Sillwood</---C>", "Title": "Secret Deceptions"},
