{"Comments": "I finally met my match - an author that slowed me down! I'm a very fast reader - skimmer actually (<---B>you get more read that way</---B>), and the style and beauty of this book deserved to have every savory word read. Clearly an accomplished writer in the craft of poetry, de los Santos conveys the flow and beauty of the written word in this novel. In addition,<---M> she molds likeable</---M>, believable characters, and creates an intriging story. I will read anything she writes! I would look at this book and read the back cover everytime I went to Borders. So, I recieved a gift card for Barnes & Noble so I went ahead and purchased this book. I'm not sure what I was expecting but I was a little disappointed with the development of the story of Cornelia and Claire. I found the frequent references to old romanticized movies and actors lame and completely over done. As someone who has a few film courses under her belt (but generally dislikes all romantic comedies with v I would look at this book and read the back cover everytime I went to Borders. So, I recieved a gift card for Barnes & Noble so I went ahead and purchased this book. I'm not sure what I was expecting but I was a little disappointed with the development of the story of Cornelia and Claire. I found the frequent references to old romanticized movies and actors lame and completely over done. As someone who has a few film courses under her belt (but generally dislikes all romantic comedies with very few exception ie \"Bringing up Baby\" and \"How to Lose a Guy in Ten Days\"), I still found that I mostly had no idea what Cornelia was referring when she mentioned these \"classic movies\". I felt like classic romantic films 101 should be have been a prerequisite for reading this fluffy novel. I also had a problem with the fact that all storylines and character choices seemed to easy and predictable. You saw them coming a 10 miles away and all plans and hopes just happened to work out perfectly. All loose ends were tied up tightly into perfectly happy endings, and that's fine. Who doesn't want like to feel a sense of some resolution afetr reading a book or seeing a film? But this was just so forced and unnatural. When the guy your dating for three months \"forgets\" to tell you he has a daughter and then she all of a sudden shows up when her mentally ill mother leaves, do you immediately become her surrogate mother? Do you just decide one day that you are in love with your sister's husband( who just so happens to have been your great friend all your life but married your sis and it just so happens that your sister leaves for her husband for some other man) and find out he's loved you since you were kids and your families are both fully supportive of you and him hooking up within days of learning that your sister left him? I seriously doubt it..<---F> so unbelievable</---F>. There are more examples of this nonsense but there is no need to elaborate. If you see this book on the shelf don't even bother to stop..keep on movin'! ...more For the first two-thirds of this book, I was in love. The prose was so taut and engaging, I didn\u2019t want to put the darn book down (even though I am technically supposed to be reading Emma). The cultural references alone (books, movies, music) were enough to keep me riveted. I loved the pert and unique language of the adult heroine: Cornelia. Also, the author was very adept at creating very different, very believable voices for the two protagonists: Cornelia and Clare. So, when the last act came a For the first two-thirds of this book, I was in love. The prose was so taut and engaging, I didn\u2019t want to put the darn book down (even though I am technically supposed to be reading Emma). The cultural references alone (books, movies, music) were enough to keep me riveted. I loved the pert and unique language of the adult heroine: Cornelia. Also, the author was very adept at creating very different, very believable voices for the two protagonists: Cornelia and Clare. So, when the last act came around, I was disappointed. I think the author had so much to accomplish in those last few chapters (especially with making the plot conform to the romance formula) that the writing was focused on accomplishing the end, rather than telling the end. Plot twists and turns abound in that third act, some, even, that I felt weren\u2019t true to the characters. Some other minor complaints: (1) The chapters alternated between Cornelia (in first person) and Clare (in third person). While I generally liked the technique, it was disarming to have to switch from first to third person every few pages. (2) All of the characters were unrealistically beautiful. (3) This isn\u2019t related to the book, but I think Sarah Jessica Parker is all wrong to play Cornelia in the movie. Cornelia is described as five feet tall with dark, pixie-cut hair, with a face resembling that of Audrey Hepburn. Come on. ...more I was skeptical about this book at first - a former coworker at the bookstore told me I had to read it, but we tend to have different taste. I expected generic chick lit, and was extremely surprised: it wasn't that at all. It was amazing. I adored it. I carried it around for days so I could read every chance I got. I loved it so much that I'm having a hard time articulating why , exactly. The writing was captivating, and I identified with both of the main characters in various ways. The chapters I was skeptical about this book at first - a former coworker at the bookstore told me I had to read it, but we tend to have different taste. I expected generic chick lit, and was extremely surprised: it wasn't that at all. It was amazing. I adored it. I carried it around for days so I could read every chance I got. I loved it so much that I'm having a hard time articulating why , exactly. The writing was captivating, and I identified with both of the main characters in various ways. The chapters alternate between a young woman managing a coffee bar and a 12-year-old who has just been abandoned by her psychologically unstable mother*. In the 12-year-old's first chapter, she's making a list of her favorite literary orphans on the back of a worksheet at school. I knew at that moment that I would love this book. <+++>Love Walked In</+++> starts out like a fairy tale: Cornelia's life changes forever when a Cary Grant lookalike walks into her cafe. But it doesn't go the obvious places where a fairy tale would go. It's more complex and therefore more likable. The ending does perhaps wrap up a bit too neatly, but it's way less fakely perfect than it could have been, so I forgave it. This is one that I'll be reading again and again, I'm sure. * That circumstance has nothing to do with why I identified with the character. Just to clarify. :) ...more <+++>Love Walked In</+++> centers on an unlikely meeting between two narrators -- Cornelia, a 31-year-old cafe manager, and Clare, the 11-year-old daughter of Cornelia's current boyfriend. What unfolds is a strange and at times hopeful narrative of relationships, connections, and love. Cornelia's narrative is chatty -- like a girlfriend catching up on a whopper of a story --, but it's often over the top. The author uses Cornelia as a place to indulge in being in love with her own precocity, and it is more o Love Walked In centers on an unlikely meeting between two narrators -- Cornelia, a 31-year-old cafe manager, and Clare, the 11-year-old daughter of Cornelia's current boyfriend. What unfolds is a strange and at times hopeful narrative of relationships, connections, and love. Cornelia's narrative is chatty -- like a girlfriend catching up on a whopper of a story --, but it's often over the top. The author uses Cornelia as a place to indulge in being in love with her own precocity, and it is more often irritating than cute. Clare's narrative is lovely and heartbreaking. It's hard not to want to reach into the book and envelope her. The first half was wistful and hopeful, and I really enjoyed it. But the author sets up a scenario that cannot be easily resolved, and instead of going for a realistic or difficult scenario, she pulls out every ridiculous, contrived plot-twist imaginable in the second half of the book. I found myself floored in disbelief; not only was I incredulous, but I was also concerned about Cornelia's decision vis-a-vis Clare and dumbfounded at the idea that we were supposed to buy such a baloney-filled ending. This book is great if you need a new kind of fluff to read, but know that the ending is going to be wholly bizarre. I was transfixed and yet felt like I was watching a car accident in progress. ...more After two semesters of doom and gloom novels, my soul needed verbal cuddling. I can see this book translating into a chick-flick, the type of movie mothers bring their daughters to and weep mercilessly halfway into the film. The title itself says it all. I wasn't hooked immediately into this book, as I normally am with guilty pleasures...and here's why. The author didn't have a set voice she settled into. Her chapters alternated between Cornelia, a thirty-something cafe manager, and Clare, an ele After two semesters of doom and gloom novels, my soul needed verbal cuddling. I can see this book translating into a chick-flick, the type of movie mothers bring their daughters to and weep mercilessly halfway into the film. The title itself says it all. I wasn't hooked immediately into this book, as I normally am with guilty pleasures...and here's why. The author didn't have a set voice she settled into. Her chapters alternated between Cornelia, a thirty-something cafe manager, and Clare, an eleven-year-old girl whose bipolar mom abandoned her. The Cornelia chapters were first-person POV, the Clare chapters were third-person. I think I understand why she did this--because getting into the mind of a child, and making it believable--is truly tricky. Hats off to her for trying it. The problem is, she didn't succeed. Clare is supposed to be a girl, ahead of her years, due to the turmoil at home, but I kept thinking of how even the most precocious eleven year old couldn't be THAT observant and insightful. Yes, children are more clever than we give them credit for, and do offer bits of wisdom we are surprised by...but I often doubted the authenticity of the Clare chapters. The problem is, the Clare chapters were better written than the Cornelia ones. The description was more detailed, and quite beautiful at times; I'm sure that has to do with the fact it's third-person, not first, as it tends to be easier to write scenery in third person. But I found myself really enjoying the writing more in the Clare chapters, and the author's poetry background came through there. Although one thing I noticed--and this is a pet peeve of mine when an author chooses to tell the same story through different POV-- is that the chapters tended to be redundant. Clare would think something that Cornelia thought, and sure enough, next chapter, Cornelia would think it. Or Clare would assume something about Cornelia, or Cornelia would read something about Clare...there were no surprises between the two of them and their interactions. Everything was predicted for us, which, honestly, became boring after awhile. I also felt like the author took the 'easy' way out of things at times. Things happened too conveniently--with Martin, with Mrs. Goldberg, with any character who existed only to make it 'easier' for Cornelia--that after awhile, I thought, \"Of course. That WOULD happen.\" Of course, these are all pretty harsh criticisms for an overall very sweet book. It did its trick and definitely gave me some warm fuzzies after I was done reading it. And the author is clearly sharp and well-versed on her old movies, and more than once, I wish I had Wikipedia next to me to look up her references. This is just a genre of book I don't normally read but I won't turn away from...and truth be told, I'll read another book of hers. Because who doesn't need warm fuzzies? ...more This is one of the best-written books I've read in years. From the first paragraph, I was hooked. The writing style was just fantastic. It far exceeded my expectations in terms of a first novel. Cornelia is someone I think I would be friends with in real life. I found myself in her world through the vivid descriptions. It was almost as if the main character was inviting you into her life. I didn't want to read it too quickly (and I couldn't put it down) because I felt like I had to savor every sin This is one of the best-written books I've read in years. From the first paragraph, I was hooked. The writing style was just fantastic. It far exceeded my expectations in terms of a first novel. Cornelia is someone I think I would be friends with in real life. I found myself in her world through the vivid descriptions. It was almost as if the main character was inviting you into her life. I didn't want to read it too quickly (and I couldn't put it down) because I felt like I had to savor every single word. Some people may feel the plotlines were predictable, but I would have to disagree. I would say that the story was comfortable due to excellent writing and that I didn't know what was coming because of the well developed characters and plotline. Ms. de los Santos is a poet, a fact that shines through in her writing. This book was an absolute pleasure to read, and I can't wait to read \"Belong to Me\" to see how my Cornelia's life turns out... and to read whatever else this wonderful author puts out! ...more Reading, it is truly what I love to do. However, I do not like wordy books. By this I mean, when something can be essentially and beautifully written in say 10 words, why ruin it by writing it with 20. The story, its premise and its entirety are nice concepts which had the possibility of many things. Yet, I could not wait for it to end because the boos itself is so over-the-top wordy, I just wanted to scream. Perhaps it was just me, but some of the sentences were just painful because it was as i Reading, it is truly what I love to do. However, I do not like wordy books. By this I mean, when something can be essentially and beautifully written in say 10 words, why ruin it by writing it with 20. The story, its premise and its entirety are nice concepts which had the possibility of many things. Yet, I could not wait for it to end because the boos itself is so over-the-top wordy, I just wanted to scream. Perhaps it was just me, but some of the sentences were just painful because it was as if the author was just trying to see how many words she could fit in a sentence. ...more Audio Version. Written by a poet, Love Walked In described love, family, and womanhood in a beautiful heart-wrenching way. I quote a section describing exactly, well almost exactly how I feel about my purpose as a mother. The main character's mother has just told her daughter about her life growing up with a mentally ill and alcoholic mother: \u201cI swore nothing like that would ever touch this family.\u201d And her whole body tilted forward when she said it so great was her ferocity. It was the scene in Go Audio Version. Written by a poet, Love Walked In described love, family, and womanhood in a beautiful heart-wrenching way. I quote a section describing exactly, well almost exactly how I feel about my purpose as a mother. The main character's mother has just told her daughter about her life growing up with a mentally ill and alcoholic mother: \u201cI swore nothing like that would ever touch this family.\u201d And her whole body tilted forward when she said it so great was her ferocity. It was the scene in Gone With the Wind , Scarlet raising her fist in the air, Georgia in ashes around her, the morning sun turning the world red. When she said that I understood, I saw the truth all at once, like an image in a movie scene-How this single statement, my mother\u2019s resolve ran like a strong rigid seam through the foundation of this house through the supporting walls and wooden beams and through the upbeat normalcy of every day. My mother walked out then, and my father sat down beside me, staring into the fire. \u201cIt\u2019s what she\u2019s been protecting us from all this time,\u201d I said with wonder in my voice. \u201cDid you think all this was for free? Happiness isn\u2019t what happens when you whistle along pretending bad things don\u2019t exist\u2026 I know that\u2019s what you think goes on in this house, but you\u2019re wrong. Happiness is earned like everything else, it is achieved. The problem is that your mother made it look too easy, which is exactly what she wanted. \u201c Beautiful, touching story. I wish all humanity would be a little more like Cornelia in their treatment of children, strangers, and those in need. ...more I really enjoyed this book, because it was beautifully written, and the story was a unique one. I was a touch disappointed by the ending, but what else is new? And again, in reflecting upon what the ending was, I'm not sure that I could find a more suitable one. I just didn't think that Cornelia would give up the house she inherited to Viviana and Clare. It was a huge self-sacrifice. This may sound odd, but I would have felt better if they would agreed to exchange some form of payment. I'm not b I really enjoyed this book, because it was beautifully written, and the story was a unique one. I was a touch disappointed by the ending, but what else is new? And again, in reflecting upon what the ending was, I'm not sure that I could find a more suitable one. I just didn't think that Cornelia would give up the house she inherited to Viviana and Clare. It was a huge self-sacrifice. This may sound odd, but I would have felt better if they would agreed to exchange some form of payment. I'm not being cynical, because I understand that love does and should transcend money, but the act just seemed a tad bit, and I mean a tad bit, over the top to me. I also think that the book would have been slightly more interesting if Martin were still in the picture. If the death enabled Cornelia to get custody of Clare, then it would have been worth it. Yet I think without that occurrence, it would be interesting to see whether Martin was able to redeem himself, and if so, how he would have fit in the overall picture. Don't let these picky points lead you to believe that I wouldn't recommend the book, because I whole-heartedly do! I love that it was set in Philadelphia, and I loved all of the characters, even Martin, because he represents the character of many other people who can't be selfless. Cornelia is a wonderful character. I would love for someone like her to be my friend. She is true to herself, loving and has a good head on her shoulders. And, Teo, what I can say? He is the perfect counterpart to Cornelia. I just adore the two of them as couple. I am really looking forward to reading the sequel, Belong To Me . I'm hoping that the second book in the series will take the minor issues that I mentioned this review off of the table. Stay tuned :) ...more There\u2019s a kind of holiness to love, requited or not, and those people who don\u2019t receive it with gratitude are arrogant beyond saving\u2026I held fast to that fact too, held fast and then, in the last seconds, let it go. I released my thanks into the air like birds, with the hope that, if they didn\u2019t find Martin, they\u2019d at least add themselves to whatever accumulation of goodness might be out there. Love Walked In wasn\u2019t what I was expecting, I was expecting something sweet and cute, and it was, but it There\u2019s a kind of holiness to love, requited or not, and those people who don\u2019t receive it with gratitude are arrogant beyond saving\u2026I held fast to that fact too, held fast and then, in the last seconds, let it go. I released my thanks into the air like birds, with the hope that, if they didn\u2019t find Martin, they\u2019d at least add themselves to whatever accumulation of goodness might be out there. Love Walked In wasn\u2019t what I was expecting, I was expecting something sweet and cute, and it was, but it was so much more. This is the type of book that you read for a light read, that has fluff and sweetness, but you come away with so much depth. It was achingly beautiful, smile inducing, thought provoking, with beautiful messages that delved into my mind. I just loved this book! It was such a beautiful treat, scrumptious and elegant, inquisitive, mouthwatering in its grace and beauty soaking the pages, infused in the characters minds that just bled onto me, melting my heart. This book wouldn\u2019t have made such an impact if not for the endearing, lovely characters. They were all so superb, with so much emotion and depth and feelings that I felt so acutely. I loved Cornelia for her look on life, for her love for the people around her, for her spunk, for her big heart inside her little body. I loved Teo for his, hmm, swoon worthiness, for his shyness, for his quality of listening to people and not saying what is expected, but letting them know that what they feel is right, because it\u2019s what they feel, and to not be afraid to show it. And I loved Clare, for her sweetness, for her childlike nature, yet her adult like look on life. She see\u2019s deeper than other eleven year olds, but her heart still cries out for her mother like any other child, despite what the mother does to them. Such a natural, binding feeling and instinct between any mother and daughter. I ached for Clare for her loneliness and pain, but I smiled at her for her strength and determination and love. This book slowed me down markedly. Because I found the captivating need to savor every single word Marisa wrote. Each carefully constructed word chosen with such care. The prose was beautiful, strung into an oh so beautiful story that captured my heart. The writing was just so incredible, stellar, shining like a star in the bleak trials of life, shedding light into the characters lives, giving them something to love, to look forward to, to have a reason to not give up. Marisa has a round about way of getting to the point she\u2019s trying to show, but she does it skillfully, amazingly. I didn\u2019t mind one bit her veering off course a little because of the added information. I became engrossed with these little details and stories, I lingered on every word, and when she finally got back to what she had started talking about before she went off on a tangent, the added details made the point she was getting to more meaningful, giving the point some background, supplying the reader with information that the character knew that we would have to know to really understand the point. This book is just beautiful. It\u2019s lovely, and sweet, and heartbreaking. It isn\u2019t a stunningly brilliant read, nor does it have incredibly deep messages that will change your life. But it does have it\u2019s moments of inspiration and depth, and so much love. It really is based on love, and that is partly what made the book so endearing to me. The love the characters felt and showed, the love they already had and knew, and the love that grew in their hearts as they met someone new. Hence the title. Love Walked In . Because love does walk in, several times in the course of the book, in different ways. Each character is affected by it, and made stronger and better because of the love walking into their life. Content warning- There is swearing (almost to the point of taking the enchantment out of the story for me, as incessive swearing usually does when I read it in any book), and some talk of sex, but nothing explicit. ...more Wow, I can't remember exactly how this book came to my attention. I think I fell in love with the cover and then listened to an interview with the author on Bordersmedia.com. It's hard to describe this book and how it's written -- crisp, elegant, gut-wrenching, lyrical, heartbreaking, then funny. At first it was hard to get used to the author's style and I had a hard time getting into it, but then after the first 80 pgs. or so (don't all great books take about that long??) I was so attached to t Wow, I can't remember exactly how this book came to my attention. I think I fell in love with the cover and then listened to an interview with the author on Bordersmedia.com. It's hard to describe this book and how it's written -- crisp, elegant, gut-wrenching, lyrical, heartbreaking, then funny. At first it was hard to get used to the author's style and I had a hard time getting into it, but then after the first 80 pgs. or so (don't all great books take about that long??) I was so attached to the characters and wanted to know how things were going to work out. The book has two heroines as narrators, Cornelia and Clare. Each chapter alternates between the two, Cornelia written in the 1st person and Clare written in 3rd person. After you get used to it, it's so engaging. Cornelia's personality is witty and funny, sometimes obnoxious and rambles on (like I'm doing now) but in a cute, funny way, comparing life's moments to classic movies such as \"The Philadelphia Story\". Clare, a young girl she meets in her coffee shop, and subsequently changes her life, you fall in love with. Her story and experiences are heart-wrenching and captured so well as she tries to make sense of the behavior of her increasingly unstable mother and deal with her disappearance. She is so lovable, you just want to reach in the book and hug her. I'm not sharing much about the plot in this review because it's hard to describe it, but you can read more about it. I really enjoyed the book and the author's lyrical way of writing. Apparently she is an acclaimed poet and this is her first novel. A sequel to this has just come out as well called \"Belong to Me\" which I am going to read next. I also heard that a movie is being made about the book starring Sarah Jessica Parker. I definitely recommend this book, but with a warning, there are occasional spouts of language which I could do without, but luckily it is not all through the book, just in parts. A very delightful book to read, and even to discuss. I would love to talk about it with anyone who reads it! Such a great book!! Read it! ...more The stars are for Teo, being half-Filipino. More about this soon. ***UPDATE*** Love Walked In was the book club\u2019s book of the month for February. It was supposed to give out feels (was it?) and it did, except that I felt the feels much later in the story. Or maybe it was just me because I didn\u2019t really feel anything for Martin Grace. Sure, he was depicted to be Cornelia\u2019s dream boy (did I just say dream boy? How high school, haha!) but I didn\u2019t like him at all. I didn\u2019t like him at the start \u2014 at The stars are for Teo, being half-Filipino. More about this soon. ***UPDATE*** Love Walked In was the book club\u2019s book of the month for February. It was supposed to give out feels (was it?) and it did, except that I felt the feels much later in the story. Or maybe it was just me because I didn\u2019t really feel anything for Martin Grace. Sure, he was depicted to be Cornelia\u2019s dream boy (did I just say dream boy? How high school, haha!) but I didn\u2019t like him at all. I didn\u2019t like him at the start \u2014 at the time he walked in to Cornelia\u2019s coffee shop. He was too good to be true. Read more ~ ...more So after that cynical, depressing Indian book I thought what I needed was some chick lit, and this was supposed to be more intelligent than average chick lit. Was it? Well, if continual annoying references to old movies (in which I have absolutely no interest), a slightly less hackneyed (perhaps) story line, and a heroine who\u2019s making a valiant effort at having a Personality qualifies as more intelligent chick lit, okay, I\u2019ll give it to you. I guess the fact that I didn\u2019t close the book halfway So after that cynical, depressing Indian book I thought what I needed was some chick lit, and this was supposed to be more intelligent than average chick lit. Was it? Well, if continual annoying references to old movies (in which I have absolutely no interest), a slightly less hackneyed (perhaps) story line, and a heroine who\u2019s making a valiant effort at having a Personality qualifies as more intelligent chick lit, okay, I\u2019ll give it to you. I guess the fact that I didn\u2019t close the book halfway through says something, although again, that may have simply been the contrast effect with the last book I read. Cornelia, who\u2019s just too perky, cute, and attractive (85 lbs.? An Audrey Hepburn lookalike? Don\u2019t average-looking people ever have romances?), quipping snappily to the reader right and left, and constantly saying things like, \u201cI know this is a clich\u00e9 but\u2026\u201d (as if that makes it okay for the book to be filled with clich\u00e9s), is a 31-year-old manager of a coffee shop (could we get any more hip? But never fear \u2013 she\u2019s intelligent and deep too!) who falls instantly in love with a gorgeous male customer, who naturally falls right back in love with her and sweeps her off her feet and into a whirlwind romance, because of course he\u2019s not only gorgeous but fun and romantic and the immediate chemistry is sustained and goes beyond the physical. Well, I guess if you\u2019re 85 lbs. and impossibly cute, it can happen. For most of us, attraction develops a little more slowly and with a bit more complexity than that. But I guess I\u2019m alone in preferring to read about a slow-developing, complicated romance over simplistic stuff like this. Which, incidentally, is why I never liked the old movies that Cornelia constantly references. Then you have the classic Disney movie story line \u2013 precocious kid struggles with tragic circumstances, becoming an adult before her time, managing to need nurturing while not seeming needy, thus effortlessly getting people to love her. This plot is also a hackneyed one, though its appearance in a chick lit novel may be a bit more original. Maybe. I still found it an emotionally manipulative, obvious effort to tug at the reader\u2019s heartstrings. The kid, Clare, is 11 years old with a suddenly manic mother and an apathetic father. The description of the mother\u2019s mania was just too perfect, as if the author read a bunch of books on bipolar disorder and merged the descriptions of the manic phase into this one mother, whose onset appears rather sudden and immediate and who doesn't seem to be anything other than manic, ever (until the end, of course, when her medication has worked miracles). While the description was basically consistent with the more obvious symptoms of bipolar disorder on a superficial level, it seemed just a little too one-dimensional to me. Clare, of course, intuits that her mother is ill and manages to heroically structure her life despite this, keeping it a secret from friends and concerned teachers, trying and failing to get her father to help her. Until her mother abandons her, and the two plotlines meet \u2013 aha! Cornelia\u2019s new love, Martin, is Clare\u2019s neglectful father! And now Cornelia can instantly fall in love with Clare, and out of love with Martin, just in time for her impossibly gorgeous brother-in-law Teo to walk in and instantly fall in love with both of them (don\u2019t worry; we later learn that his wife has already left him even though every other woman in the world drops at his feet, and Cornelia and her sister are conveniently estranged anyway, so no complications there). Despite everything Clare has been through, she immediately takes to Cornelia and Teo, who both know exactly how to talk to her and what to say and do and not say and not do despite never having had children of their own, never mind how delicate it would be in any case to build rapport with a child in this situation. And thus, what could have been an incredibly complex situation works out just beautifully. A convenient death, a family who is just thrilled that one daughter\u2019s marriage has broken up and their son-in-law is now with their other daughter (if you\u2019re all so close-knit and happy, why are you feeling no conflict about what your newly divorced daughter must be going through?), a dying neighbor who leaves her entire estate to Cornelia even though she has children of her own (and no hard feelings from said children!), and Clare\u2019s mother returns, on the right medication, remorseful and ready to return to motherhood, and even bonding with Cornelia and agreeing to make room for Cornelia in Clare\u2019s life. I simply cannot believe that my cynical sister gave this four stars. I will give it two, because I finished it and because it is, perhaps, on the upper half of the chicklit continuum although that\u2019s really not saying much. ...more Must, must, must get past the title, which I would bet you a million trillion dollars is not what the author wanted to call this book, smacking as it does of some marketing gal with funky glasses but terrible taste in books' idea of a kicky funky and SELLABLE! title. Ugh. So gross. But must get past it, for this book is wholly delightful and surprising and moving and lovely. I think it was on the \"staff recommends\" shelf at my bookstore; it's now a book that I recommend (and give to) others. The Must, must, must get past the title, which I would bet you a million trillion dollars is not what the author wanted to call this book, smacking as it does of some marketing gal with funky glasses but terrible taste in books' idea of a kicky funky and SELLABLE! title. Ugh. So gross. But must get past it, for this book is wholly delightful and surprising and moving and lovely. I think it was on the \"staff recommends\" shelf at my bookstore; it's now a book that I recommend (and give to) others. The story is sweet and moving, and unpredictable in ways that make somehow make sense--not in the quirky for quirkiness's sake way that drives me bonkers. This book isn't trying to be anything. This book has true feeling. This book hates its title as much as I do, I just know it. Lovely, lovely, lovely. ...more I picked up this book by accident, not having read anything by this author, and I am so glad I did! This story is to be read slowly so as to savor the author's writing style. It is a book about a single woman, a wonderful little girl, and a lot of love! I'm going to be completely honest about this and hope that my own recent... bitterness isn't seeping in to my review at all. First, let me talk about the format of the book. I've only read one other book (recently) that used a shifting perspective to tell the story. I thought the vacillation between Cornelia and Clare to be fascinating, as well as much more successfully rendered than The History of Love (as well as less-confusing than said other book, mainly because each chapter says which perspe I'm going to be completely honest about this and hope that my own recent... bitterness isn't seeping in to my review at all. First, let me talk about the format of the book. I've only read one other book (recently) that used a shifting perspective to tell the story. I thought the vacillation between Cornelia and Clare to be fascinating, as well as much more successfully rendered than The History of Love (as well as less-confusing than said other book, mainly because each chapter says which perspective is telling that part of the story). It was also nice to read a book with an artistic framework (as in, told by the same person at the beginning and the end) and fresh language. What I thought at times was disingenuous, however, was the dialog; at times, Cornelia just sounded a bit... off, especially when the dialog between characters went on for what felt like too long a stretch. Also, for the most part I enjoyed Cornelia's first-person account of how her life came to be what it is at the end of the novel, but (especially in the middle) I found she was too arch and witty for my liking, as though at that point it was inappropriate for her to be so. Clare's traditional third-person perspective was more real to me, maybe because it's just more natural a story-telling trope in my literature-laden existence. Also, especially around the 1/3 point of the novel, I simply found Clare's story to be more interesting than Cornelia's (maybe because that's exactly the kind of story that I more often than not don't find myself reading), and only near the end was I beginning to pull for Cornelia again (and hope that her inevitable relationship with Teo would avoid typical chick-lit. conventions). Then again, about 1/3 of the way through the novel I had a better sense of where it was going. Which leads me to my next point. I was both thrilled with and annoyed by not knowing what was coming next. On the one hand, I found the gradual unraveling of the story exciting and refreshing, and, even though I knew eventually Clare's mother would show up again to reclaim her daughter, I didn't know when it would happen until just before it did. On the other hand, it seemed odd that it took almost 100 pages for Cornelia and Clare to meet in the first place (considering that the narration alternated between them since the beginning of the novel), as well as that it took me so long to figure out that Martin was Clare's father. And not until about 2/3 of the way through the novel did I figure out why all the characters who had been introduced thus far at seemingly sporadic intervals were so important in the first place. The ending was neat and tidy, but maybe it took a little too long to set up that ending. Or maybe it just didn't need to be that... tidy. I don't think I needed Cornelia to spell out for me that the \"love\" that \"walked in\" to her coffee shop was really about Clare and Teo and not about Martin, mainly because I got that about 225 pages in. But I was very, very pleased that the \"love\" Cornelia found again wasn't that typical, chick-lit. type that's become so popular these days. And I suppose that the ending really isn't all that \"tidy\" since I couldn't figure out how the complicated situation could possibly reconcile itself (except, now that I think about it more closely, I suppose there really was only one way in which it could happen, which is the one De Los Santos chose), but Cornelia just happening to inherit everything from Mrs. Goldberg was perhaps just a bit too convenient. I also found myself, at times, confused with the setting of the book. Does it really only take an hour to get from Philadelphia to New York, for example? I don't live far from Philly, but it takes me well over two hours to hit just NYC... Plus, I had a really hard time placing Clare's mother's house in the relative area of Pennsylvania, as well as the general location of Cornelia's family's home. Not that the description was lacking at all, it just felt... not quite specific enough? I'm not sure what I mean exactly, just that my mental pictures were fuzzy at best when Clare and Cornelia walked around the city of Philadelphia, for example. Overall, the book was pretty-well executed, not entirely predictable (yet satisfying in a happy-ending sort of way), and genuine enough to allow me to suspend my disbeliefs long enough to fall into the story De Los Santos was telling. I appreciated the literary references more than the film ones, I suppose, because I know the literary ones better, but I'm interested in going out and renting/buying those movies, so that's something! And, again, I'm all about endings that aren't exactly \"happy\" ones but feel resolved, and this book absolutely does that for me. Very glad I finally got around to reading it, and it makes me wonder where De Los Santos's newest book takes this story! ...more The book starts out when a stranger walks into a store and asks the main character to come to London with him on a whim, which is somehow supposed to be romantic because he's handsome and elegant. I didn't find it romantic. At all. I found it creepy and loaded with red flags of instability. I spent the first hundred pages asking myself why I read modern fiction when I get so irked with stories about jumping from one bed to another until you hit the right one and somehow that is supposed to stick The book starts out when a stranger walks into a store and asks the main character to come to London with him on a whim, which is somehow supposed to be romantic because he's handsome and elegant. I didn't find it romantic. At all. I found it creepy and loaded with red flags of instability. I spent the first hundred pages asking myself why I read modern fiction when I get so irked with stories about jumping from one bed to another until you hit the right one and somehow that is supposed to stick despite a history of not staying put in a relationship. So I didn't like it at first. And I was confused with the intertwining story of a child that had nothing to do with the relationship. And then, it snapped into place and I realized the love that walked in was not this swept off a movie screen moment. That love isn't about grand gestures that look great on film but in real life are emotionally shallow. That love is about what you do and are everyday. That love just is. And I liked that a lot better. The story is sweet, a little too convenient at times and a little too wrapped up at the end (view spoiler) [(I mean wanting to just give a house away?) (hide spoiler) ] , but it was a nice story. And I was rooting for the characters, even the odd relationship that should have me turning my nose up is written well enough that I wanted to root for it. Maybe I was never intended to root for Martin in the first place and those doubts are planted for a reason. But I still had issues. Most importantly I had trouble picturing an 85-pound 31-year-old woman whose brothers would pick up and throw back and forth, who loves her family to death but doesn't want to talk about them or see them. And her goodness and lovability, well it just didn't stick to me. Especially when she tells an 11-year-old girl (who is not her daughter or even related to her) that it's ok to have sex with someone you don't love as long as you decide you want to. Oh boy. About the other characters: Linny was not someone I couldn't be mad at. I know she's supposed to be lovable in her quirkiness, but she was someone I could be irritated at a lot. I had trouble picturing a Greek god the combination of a Swedish model and a Polynesian. Even though I couldn't picture him, I liked him enough, except for that one major flaw (view spoiler) [that he's her sister's husband. (hide spoiler) ] . Clare is about the only character that I truly liked and didn't have any issues with. And of course she is the child. Everyone else is drop-dead gorgeous and rich and lovable in their Bohemian quirkiness. So I didn't. Too much of it I suppose. I enjoyed Cornelia's commentary and movie analogies and Clare's orphan lists. The thing is despite major plot holes and contrived plot lines, de los Santos had me rooting for the characters and interested in the story and eating up her writing. Even when I didn't like the story, I wanted to. And I'm glad everyone got their happily ever after. I liked it, but in that tone that makes you say, \"You liked it, but...?\" ...more What I found enjoyable about Love Walked In is the crispness and clarity of the voices employed in storytelling (although the initial Cornelia chapters felt too long winded). And the alternating narratives of Claire and Cornelia indicated that this isn't your usual romance novel, you know, the one where they trace the path from meet cute to falling in love to happily ever after. The focal point isn't even romantic love, not entirely, no. But the love you get from friendship and family. And I tho What I found enjoyable about Love Walked In is the crispness and clarity of the voices employed in storytelling (although the initial Cornelia chapters felt too long winded). And the alternating narratives of Claire and Cornelia indicated that this isn't your usual romance novel, you know, the one where they trace the path from meet cute to falling in love to happily ever after. The focal point isn't even romantic love, not entirely, no. But the love you get from friendship and family. And I thought, that was a pretty nice deviation. The book is not without tropes though. Adorkable Trope - Cornelia (She has been described as piquant, pixie-ish, a face girl, and she's PETITE.) Every Girl Wants Him / Most Beautiful Man in the World Trope - Teo Sandoval (He glows they say. Like Edward Cullen! He might be a vampyr!) Quirky Best Friend Trope - Linny (On one occasion wears a scarf, striped engineer's overalls and embroidered Chinese slippers, all at the same time. BFFs are are either quirky or gay. Or both.) Love Epiphany Trope - Transubstansmahshamalalalan Okay I am nitpicking because there will always be tropes, but it does get a little wearisome if you've had them over and over. And I am usually okay with most of them if done to my liking, or obscured by other things like engaging writing, which was actually the case for Love Walked In. But I was a little less amenable about these things which felt like contrivances, or what I ended up calling as KABLAM-Y Moments. KABLAM! Dead! KABLAM! Transubstansmahshamalalalan! KABLAM! Turns out I am having marriage issues and I have feelings for you too! KABLAM! Divorce papyrs on the way! We can be together! Happily Ever After! Overall though, the writing makes it stand out. Great prose. It's the plot and the characterization that I am not completely into. That and I probably am just a Romance Grinch. Or as one of the oldest and most standard tropes go: It's not you, (Love Walked In,) it's me. See original post here: Rabbitin ...more Sorry, Anastasia, this book sucked. This is your typical chick lit novel where the single girl (Cornelia) meets the guy of her dreams, hates the guy of her dreams, and loves the guy who has been under her nose the whole time. In addition to the single girl, there is also an 11 year old girl, Clare, whose mother leaves her on the side of the road and her father (who happens to be Cornelia's dream man) doesn't want to take responsibility of Clare. So Cornelia steps up and decides to take Clare in. Sorry, Anastasia, this book sucked. This is your typical chick lit novel where the single girl (Cornelia) meets the guy of her dreams, hates the guy of her dreams, and loves the guy who has been under her nose the whole time. In addition to the single girl, there is also an 11 year old girl, Clare, whose mother leaves her on the side of the road and her father (who happens to be Cornelia's dream man) doesn't want to take responsibility of Clare. So Cornelia steps up and decides to take Clare in. Its such a freaking impossible story that I just stopped paying attention after a while. I mean who goes on a couple of dates with someone and then decides \"oh, I will take your daughter in, because you clearly don't know what you're doing.\" She also compares reference librarians to cheese shop owners. \"They talk about cheese--and not just cheese, but olives, charcuterie, pate and so forth, with that combination of offhandedness and passion more commonly associated with reference librarians. ('We all know The American Heritage Dictionary of Idioms , but have you tried Brewer's Phrase and Fable, Millennium Edition ? Well, hold on to your hat; you're in for the ride of your life!').\" Fuck you, Marisa De Los Santos. ...more \"But in the months that followed Martin's gracing of Cafe Dora's doorway, I'd figured out that a real life didn't mean attaining my heart's desire, but knowing it, meant not the satisfaction, but the longing.\" This is a sweet, sweet book with a great story about love in all of its forms, redemption, knowing what you want...and the privledge of having things that you're passionate about. To re-tell any of the story would be to spoil its surprises. Anyone who's heart is warmed by a cup of hot chocol \"But in the months that followed Martin's gracing of Cafe Dora's doorway, I'd figured out that a real life didn't mean attaining my heart's desire, but knowing it, meant not the satisfaction, but the longing.\" This is a sweet, sweet book with a great story about love in all of its forms, redemption, knowing what you want...and the privledge of having things that you're passionate about. To re-tell any of the story would be to spoil its surprises. Anyone who's heart is warmed by a cup of hot chocolate, a front porch, an old house full of antiques, friends, family...who considers a childhood book a childhood friend...or has shaped their life around any of the following movies: Now, Voyager, The Philadelphia Story, Casablanca.....look no further. Read it, then pass it on to a friend. ...more https://bookrhapsody.wordpress.com/20... I learned to love the kid. But the elements of a normal chic-lit is still there. The men, the eyes and the dose of fluffy adjectives and sugar-coatin around them. <---A>Marisa de los Santos</---A> is an author I discovered just recently, and I absolutely enjoy the spirit of joy and wit she conveys in her storytelling. \"Belong To Me\", the 2nd book featuring Cornelia was simply unforgettably heartwarming and funny - and I must admit I liked that one much better than book 1 (Love Walked In): simply the fact that Cornelia and all the other characters were better defined & fleshed out in book 2. And truly, the plot of Belong To Me captivated me more. Not that this one Marisa de los Santos is an author I discovered just recently, and I absolutely enjoy the spirit of joy and wit she conveys in her storytelling. \"Belong To Me\", the 2nd book featuring Cornelia was simply unforgettably heartwarming and funny - and I must admit I liked that one much better than book 1 (Love Walked In): simply the fact that Cornelia and all the other characters were better defined & fleshed out in book 2. And truly, the plot of Belong To Me captivated me more. Not that this one was terrible, but it felt a bit unbalanced. Too much pseudo-intellectual musings, intro- and retrospection, for my taste. All that blah-blah-blah, got a bit much for me. Loved Walked In got more interesting once 11 year old Clare enters Cornelia's life and Cornelia discovers the kind of love a woman can feel for a child that needs a mother. Can I also say that I simply adore that Teo Sandoval. What a dream character right? I love these characters and I hope, from the bottom of my heart, that there will be more books featuring Cornelia and Teo, and their wonderful families & friends. ...more Awesome! I know, I know\u2026 it is such an overrated word, but it honestly does apply in this case. The writing is lyrical.. In the best sense of the word. Everything out of their mouths, so descriptive. In fact, pages one through fifty were a challenge. Getting used to the way things were said, Cornelia\u2019s thoughts in particular, her wordiness, (just like this sentence is going right now,) even her braininess had me pulling back a bit. But as I have said, I took it as a challenge. And from page fift Awesome! I know, I know\u2026 it is such an overrated word, but it honestly does apply in this case. The writing is lyrical.. In the best sense of the word. Everything out of their mouths, so descriptive. In fact, pages one through fifty were a challenge. Getting used to the way things were said, Cornelia\u2019s thoughts in particular, her wordiness, (just like this sentence is going right now,) even her braininess had me pulling back a bit. But as I have said, I took it as a challenge. And from page fifty on, I could see everything with such clarity. First thing, the characters are lovely! Cornelia. I feel like De Los Santos took bits and pieces of me and women I know then came up with Cornelia. What a lovely character! Everything about her from her avocation, her love of and allusion to film just short of being a movie geek, her search for something to love- whether it be a job or a person, her satisfaction in being where she was at the moment, her snark, to her aversion for pixie like/cute descriptions simply spoke to me. Underachiever? I think not! Hell, call me Cornelia... Clare. Don\u2019t blame me! I couldn\u2019t help but fall in love with her. It happens everytime I'm given a smart-talking (thinking?) eleven year old, who weighs the pros and cons of sweet versus feisty and I\u2019m gone. Add the fact that she made list upon list of characters their common denominator being that of orphanhood (Wait, is that a word?) And I\u2019m definitely head over heels for the girl. Teo. On a purely superficial level of character appreciation, he appeared to be one fine specimen. Next, the writing. The word lyrical < comes to mind, but mostly what I took from it was how heartfelt and honest it became Yes, I did say 'became'. I was a little taken aback by the writing, I felt it wouldn\u2019t be my kind of book: everything was too much somehow, too descriptive, too wordy, to heavy, allusions to stuff I didn\u2019t give two cents about were ever-present\u2026 and yet, it was page fifty that hooked me in. Not to say that everything was perfect. For now though, this story, their story is perfect for me. ...more Okay, I might catch a little grief for this from those of you who gave this book only a couple of stars. Yes, I agree that some plot elements were a little too convenient--like getting a certain character out of the way, but . . . Kudos to the author for taking a unique approach to writing and story-telling. Maybe not totally unique, but something you don't find in contemporary bestsellers today (unless you count mid-grade fantasy). Cornelia's story is told in 1st person omniscient POV, and I felt Okay, I might catch a little grief for this from those of you who gave this book only a couple of stars. Yes, I agree that some plot elements were a little too convenient--like getting a certain character out of the way, but . . . Kudos to the author for taking a unique approach to writing and story-telling. Maybe not totally unique, but something you don't find in contemporary bestsellers today (unless you count mid-grade fantasy). Cornelia's story is told in 1st person omniscient POV, and I felt like I was spending time with a really quirky, chatty friend, but friend none-the-less. Clare's story was told in 3rd person. I was a little hesitant with her age being 11, thinking her character's thought patterns fit a 13-year old or 14-year old a little better (my kids are in the throws of this age group). This book was recommended by a good friend who is an excellent literary story-teller. Thankfully, she didn't spill the beans so to speak, and I did become a little impatient to see how the two stories were going to relate. Of course I couldn't really complain, because I do this in my own writing too. I thought overall that the book was tremendously appealing and there were some parts I wanted to underline, but was in too big of a hurry to find out what was going to happen. So I'll be going back through those scenes. I mean, really, the last two pages were completely beautiful. I sat there, thinking about the scene, then I went and re-read it again. After the nit-picky stuff that I don't want to bore everyone with, I fell in love with the writing style, the word choice, the voice, and the characters. There's no better reason to read a book. It is what it is. And I enjoyed the journey. ...more A beautiful little love story which explores mental health and its devastating impact on those closet to the source. I feel I got this book the wrong way around - I read the second of these two books first. Not actually knowing that this one existed and that it came before Belong to Me. I kind of wish I read them in the right order, because having read Belong to Me gave me knowledge which meant I knew how things turned out! This is the third book from this lovely author that I have read, and I lo A beautiful little love story which explores mental health and its devastating impact on those closet to the source. I feel I got this book the wrong way around - I read the second of these two books first. Not actually knowing that this one existed and that it came before Belong to Me. I kind of wish I read them in the right order, because having read Belong to Me gave me knowledge which meant I knew how things turned out! This is the third book from this lovely author that I have read, and I loved it as much as the first two. The later are better crafted and her style is more honed, but because I know what comes after I forgave a lot. I just love her enthusiasm and beautiful expression of emotion and feeling. The fact that the movie and literature references are far more abundant in this book than in the other two gives weight to my theory about first books\u2026\u2026.. The theory is this; in the first book writers feel a deep need to show the world just how well read and clever they are. But I note that as the writer matures the less is more approach evolves and their own style develops without having to prove their worthiness as a word smith. The innocence of the younger author is very evident in this her first novel but I look forward to lots more from this lovely lady. She has a great way of telling a story that digs deep into the back story and why things happen. Not only that she understands the fierce need to love your children and the more vulnerable in our society. She recognizes and celebrates the quirkiness in each of us - just lovely and gives rise to moments where your heart bursts with love for the characters. ...more This book is a love story. Cornelia Brown is the manager of a Philadelphia coffee shop when she begins dating Martin Grace, a Cary Grant look-alike. However, their fairy tale romance doesn't quite unfold the way one would expect. When 11-year-old Clare is dropped off on the side of the road by her demented mother, she begins a desperate search for her absent father. Circumstances lead Clare to Cornelia's coffee shop and the love story begins. Marisa de los Santos tells this enchanting story of a This book is a love story. Cornelia Brown is the manager of a Philadelphia coffee shop when she begins dating Martin Grace, a Cary Grant look-alike. However, their fairy tale romance doesn't quite unfold the way one would expect. When 11-year-old Clare is dropped off on the side of the road by her demented mother, she begins a desperate search for her absent father. Circumstances lead Clare to Cornelia's coffee shop and the love story begins. Marisa de los Santos tells this enchanting story of a lonely 30-something woman and a scared 11-year-old girl with romantic beauty. Weaved with references to popular culture (classic movies, songs, etc.), the book is reminiscent of a wonderful romantic comedy. Beautifully timed and eloquently delivered, I was captivated by Clare and Cornelia, and completely unsure of what would happen to them. While many may dub this book as typical 'chick lit' for it's romantic references, de los Santos is a writer with talent that far surpasses those in the general chick lit genre. Opening this book felt like sitting down to have coffee with a good friend. The writing flowed so conversationally, I felt almost as though I were listening to the story rather than reading it. Normally, I have so many books in my to-read pile, that I am always anxious to begin the next one as soon as I have finished the last. When I finished Love Walked In, I was tempted to turn right back to page one and start it all over again. I loved it. ...more I enjoyed reading through the book. The author was successful in engaging me enough to make me care about the main characters: Cornelia and Clare plus Teo but not enough to make me care for all the other characters Martin, Viviana and Ollie, etc. Probably because the author herself was not as sympathethic with them as well? Martin was killed off with no solid father-daughter reconciliation; Cornelia's light was too bright that it really outshined Viviana's as a mother which you couldn't really b I enjoyed reading through the book. The author was successful in engaging me enough to make me care about the main characters: Cornelia and Clare plus Teo but not enough to make me care for all the other characters Martin, Viviana and Ollie, etc. Probably because the author herself was not as sympathethic with them as well? Martin was killed off with no solid father-daughter reconciliation; Cornelia's light was too bright that it really outshined Viviana's as a mother which you couldn't really blame her given her condition and let's not forget Ollie who was a background character this whole time, to think that Cornelia's family was portrayed as being really intact and all, it would have been good to see a dialogue between the 2 sisters or that's just me banking too much on the sisterhood bond (I think it's too weird to be with your sister's ex-husband, no matter the childhood history). Another thing was I was too lost with the film references that I wasn't able to appreciate it. I did get and liked the Filipino culture references so that was a nice little touch. Lastly, the plot twists were a bit too much and conveniently placed that it felt like they were there just keep the story going along in favor of the main characters which was okay had it not been too obvious. Overall, it was a good read and I do plan on reading the sequel \"Belong To Me\" when I get the chance. ...more After being disappointed by the Twilight series by Stephanie Meyer, this book became the savior of my faith in good writing. I loved the style in which it was written. I liked the changes between the two main characters. 1st person for Cornelia, 3rd person for Clare. I think it was smart to write Clare's point of view from 3rd person since after reading books in the 1st person point of view of a teenager was driving me crazy. Not that Clare isn't smart for her age, but the teenager was \"supposed After being disappointed by the Twilight series by Stephanie Meyer, this book became the savior of my faith in good writing. I loved the style in which it was written. I liked the changes between the two main characters. 1st person for Cornelia, 3rd person for Clare. I think it was smart to write Clare's point of view from 3rd person since after reading books in the 1st person point of view of a teenager was driving me crazy. Not that Clare isn't smart for her age, but the teenager was \"supposedly\" smart in the other books. I liked the references to books and old movies. It doesn't take a literature major to like the story, but it certainly made me appreciate the characters. I also enjoyed the turn of falling in love with the unexpected person(s). I found interesting that the mother of Clare's name wasn't revealed until her father said it out loud later in the story. I don't think it was the author's point to keep the name secret, but that Clare thought of her as \"mom\" and not by her name. I'm adding Marisa De Los Santos to my list of authors to look out for (pretty small list actually). So I will definitely pick up Belong to Me. ...more<---C>Marisa de los Santos</---C>", "Title": "Love Walked In"},
